Copyright (C) 2010-2012  Evol Online
*hick*
*hick*

...


1. Do not bot, this means that you won't run any automated tasks (Also included keyboard tricks). Any away from keyboard activity is considereted botting does not include standing still)


2, Do not spam (includes trade spam)


3, Do not multibox, this mean that you cannot have more than one active character logged in or any other active clients used for attacking in group.


4, Don't trashtalk, beg or use rude language in your character name and in the chat, at the exception of roleplay purposes.


5, Don't speak any other language other than English in the public areas. You are free to speak any language you want in private chats and when alone with groups of friends.


6, Follow the social convention listed on the RFC1855.


@@ is helping me.
@@ está me ajudando.

A few moments ago, I heard your conversation with Darlin.


About this Esperia Guild, I'm not sure about them, frankly, there are rumors around that they did monstrous things and that they are hiding a lot of things from us.


About this Esperia's Guild, I wonder about them, if I may speak frankly. There are rumours going around that they did some monstrous things and that they are hiding quite alot of things from us.
Sobre esta guilda de Espéria, estava pensando sobre ela, se eu puder falar francamente. Há rumores por aí que dizem que eles fizeram coisas monstruosas e que eles estão escondendo um monte de coisas de nós.

Acorn


Ah... Gugli Gugli... He's too young to understand our conversation


Alige
Alige

AligeTrigger
AligeTrigger

All that I had to eat were these berries... Berries... Berries...
Tudo que eu tenho para comer são berries... Berries... Berries...

Alright, bye!
Tudo bem, tchau!

Also, there was this inscription on your raft, one of the warrior guild of Esperia, the largest and biggest guild of the whole new world, does that make you remember something?
Além disso, havia uma inscrição na sua jangada, uma da guilda guerreira de Espéria, a maior guilda de todo o novo mundo, isso te faz lembrar de alguma coisa?

Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In bad condition, go check the box around your bed, there is some new ones inside.#0
Além disso, nós pegamos suas roupas yayadas, pois elas estavam... Yeyeye... em más condições. Dê uma olhada na caixa perto de sua cama, há umas roupas melhores lá dentro.

Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In bad condition, go check the box around your bed, there is some new ones inside.#1
Além disso, nós pegamos suas roupas yayadas, pois elas estavam... Yeyeye... em más condições. Dê uma olhada na caixa perto de sua cama, há umas roupas melhores lá dentro.

And now I'm a sailor, as you can see!


And please, no berries. No more!
E por favor, não me venha com berries. Nunca mais!

And what kind of help do you need?
E de que tipo de ajuda você precisa?

And you, how are you doing?


Anyway, maybe when you are looking for food with Gugli you'll have the time to look at this!!


Aquada


Are you ok?
Você está bem?

AreaBottom
AreaBottom

AreaMiddle
AreaMiddle

AreaNPC
AreaNPC

AreaTop
AreaTop

Arrr, don't give me more berries! I don't want them, stupid berries, stupid ... stupid ... stupid!
Arrr, não me venha com mais Berries! Eu não quero essas Berries estúpidas... Estúpidas... Estúpidas!

Artis of course!


As you can walk around, it'll be easy for you. Impale one of them for me!!


As you open your eyes and look around, you see a large ship.
Ao abrir os olhos e olhar à sua volta, você vê um imenso navio.

Astapolos


At this time, we were selling crab's food on our old mushroom island.


Be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...


Before...


BillyBons
BillyBons

Box
Caixa

Bread
Pão

But I can't tell you anything about it, I'm sorry.


But I can't, I need to keep an eye on the sea, to warn the crew if there happen to be some pirates around!!


But I need to go, bye!


But for now, you can relax on the ship, or visit the island we're docked at! Its a small island, but a good place to get some exercise and stretch your legs.


But more than anything, she is the one who took care of you when you were in coma.


But who am I?
Mas quem sou eu?

But you won't *hick* me this time...
Mas desta vez você não vai me *hick*...

But... if he has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about him.
Mas... se ele tem amnésia como a Julia disse... Nós não precisamos nos preocupar com ele.

But... if she has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about her.
Mas... se ela tem amnésia como a Julia disse... Nós não precisamos nos preocupar com ela.

Bye!


Bye.


Can I read these rules again?


Can you bring me something which isn't a vegetable?
Você pode me trazer algo que não seja um vegetal?

Cap'tain has locked the door, you should go see him.


Cap'tain is waiting for you! Hurry up.


Captain Nard
Capitão Nard

Captain Nard is in the room to your right.


Certain items perform different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor, and some can be sold for gold.#0


Certain items perform different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor, and some can be sold for gold.#1


Cheese
Queijo

Click on the NPCs around you to continue the introduction.
Clique nos NPCs em sua volta para continuar a introdução.

Congrats!


Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#0
Posso saber qual a sua linguagem natural? Um marinheiro me disse que você era russa, mas outro disse que era francesa... Estou meio perdida... Vou te registrar na lista do navio assim que tiver esta informação.

Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#1
Posso saber qual a sua linguagem natural? Um marinheiro me disse que você era russo, mas outro disse que era francês... Estou meio perdida... Vou te registrar na lista do navio assim que tiver esta informação.

Could you explain to me where I am?
Você poderia me explicar onde eu estou?

Could you help me please? 
Você poderia me ajudar? 

Could you tell me where I am?#0
Você poderia me dizer onde eu estou?

Could you tell me where I am?#1
Você poderia me dizer onde eu estou?

Croc Claw


Damn you! You better not tell anyone that you've seen me!#0
Maldição! É melhor você não contar para ninguém que me viu!

Damn you! You better not tell anyone that you've seen me!#1
Maldição! É melhor você não contar para ninguém que me viu!

Dan
Dan

Dan closes the conversation and he continues to write his letter.


Dan keeps silent since your last question.


Darlin


Devis
Devis

Did you find out what the light is?!


Did you say reward? I want it!
Você disse recompensa? Eu quero!

Do you feel better??


Do you have an other question for me?
Você tem alguma outra pergunta?

Do you have any other questions for me?


Do you have anything for me today?
Você tem algo para mim hoje?

Do you hear me??


Do you want me to go see her in your place?


Does somebody know a good place to look in Esperia? - M. Arpan


Don't do do theee... *hick* with me eh!
Não faça isss... *hick* comigo eh!

Don't give the password of your room to anybody! Keep it secret and try not to use the same one in any other room in future. - Julia


Don't try to poison me! I know what that does!


DoorUpwards
DoorUpwards

Duty is calling me, *hic*, see you later dude.


Duty is calling me, *hic*, see you later honey.


Eheh!


Ehoo


Elmo
Elmo

Elven Voice


Err, seriously, I just wanted to get to Artis, and I haven't got the money to pay for the ferry!
Err, sério, eu só queria chegar em Artis e eu não tenho o dinheiro para pagar a passagem!

Excuse me, but what did you say?? Speak louder!!


Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#0
Perdão, você sabe quem eu sou?

Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#1
Perdão, você sabe quem eu sou?

Fine!


Fine, bye!!


From what I know, Gugli, my brother, needs the help of as many people as possible to collect all of the new things found on the island.


Fungus


Ggrmm grmmm...
Ggrmm grmmm...

Go outside and talk with Gugli, he will tell you what we need.


Good job!
Bom trabalho!

Good to know.


Good!!


Good, good! 
Bom, bom! 

Ground,


Gugli


Have you seen anything dangerous?


He he... OK, I'm going to the upper level and inform the captain.
He he... Ok, eu estou indo lá em cima avisar o capitão.

He is right in the bottom of the ship, you can't miss him!!


He told me nothing about that.
Ele não me falou nada sobre isso.

He's funny, it's not a problem.


Hear me *hick* well, what ever, whatididever you will*hick*said ab...euh..out wha?! You saw there, the Guild of Esperia won't let it go to public.
Escute-me *hick* bem, seja lá o que você venha a *hick* dizer ss... euh... obre ahhn? Você sabe, a guilda de espéria não vai deixar ir a público.

Hehe, no. But I'm sure that a dude like you would like to meet a gentleman like me.


Hehe, no. But I'm sure that a lady like you would love to meet a charmer like me!


Hehe, sometimes he gets his head in the clouds, You should go ask him about that.
Hehe, às vezes ele fica com a cabeça nas núvens, você deveria perguntar isso a ele.

Hehehe, he is a bit nervous, please excuse him, it's not everyday that we get a new member in the crew!
Hehehe, perdão, ele está um pouco nervoso, não é todo dia que nós recebemos um novo membro na tripulação!

Hello dear!


Hello sir!


Hello.


Hello... Should I know you?


Here they are.


Here's your reward!
Aqui está sua recompensa!

Hey


Hey Frenchy!#0
Hey Francezinha!

Hey Frenchy!#1
Hey Francezinho!

Hey Silvio, it's your turn to carry the package, go!


Hey hey


Hey you! Do you hear us? Are you okay?
Hey você! Você pode nos ouvir? Você está bem?

Hey you, sorry for leaving your room so quickly, I needed to... speak with the Captain about... The reserve.. eh, you know, now that we got a new mouth in the crew we need to check it!
Hey você, me desculpe sair do quarto tão rapidamente, eu precisava... falar com o capitão sobre... a reserva... eh, você sabe, agora que nós temos uma nova boca no grupo, nós temos que checar!

Hey! Be careful. You can't stay in this basement for so long, you are going to get sick. Come outside and take a break, maybe you can try again later.
Hey! Cuidado. Você não pode ficar neste porão por tanto tempo, você vai ficar doente. Venha para fora e descanse um pouco, talvez depois você possa tentar novamente.

Hey! Ehoo!!


Hey, don't worry about him, it's one the first days in a while we can chill.


Hey, girl!
Hey, garota!

Hey, man!
Hey cara!

Hey, psst! You're not a sailor, right?
Hey, psst! Você não é marinheiro, certo?

Hey, you can't sleep here, it's my room.


Hey, you should go see Julia to be registered on the ship board.
Hey, você deveria falar com a Julia para se registrar a bordo do navio.

Hi, nice to see you!#0
Oi, que bom te ver.

Hidden person
Pessoa escondida

Hidden person doesn't answer.


How about I ask you to help the crew? It would mean that you're one of us, and that you will be able to get one of these hats.


How are things going?


How do you know my name?


How is *hick* possible??
Como é *hick* possível??

How is it going cutie?


How is it going dude?


I also watch for dangerous animals...


I am not worried about rewards. I just want to help.
Eu não ligo para recompensas. Eu apenas quero ajudar.

I am, who are you?#0
I am, who are you?#0

I am, who are you?#1


I beg you, please, pleeeease...
Eu imploro, por favor, por favooooor...

I can't remember anything.#0
Eu não lembro de nada.

I can't remember anything.#1
Eu não lembro de nada.

I don't have anything good for you today.
Eu não tenho nada de bom para você.

I don't know what to say...


I don't need any help right now, come back later.


I don't need your help right now, come back later.
Eu não preciso da sua ajuda no momento, volte depois.

I don't think that we are in a good place to talk about this...


I don't understand!!


I don't want this, give me something else.
Eu não quero isso, traga outra coisa.

I don't want to change my language, sorry.
Perdão, eu não quero mudar minha linguagem.

I feel better!


I feel ok.#0
Eu estou bem.

I feel ok.#1
Eu estou bem.

I forgot where it was.


I guess so... I will leave you alone.


I hope that answers your question...


I hope that you don't mind that we used your raft to build this ramp.


I know that you just came back from being sick, but I would like to ask of you a special task.


I like this answer!


I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#0
Eu me enganei, gostaria de mudar minha linguagem.

I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#1
Eu me enganei, gostaria de mudar minha linguagem.

I need help for cleaning the wedge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help me.#0
Eu preciso de ajuda para limpar a cunha do navio, mas você ainda não é forte o suficiente para me ajudar.

I need help for cleaning the wedge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help me.#1
Eu preciso de ajuda para limpar a cunha do navio, mas você ainda não é forte o suficiente para me ajudar.

I need somebody who can clean the bottom of the ship of these Ratto, can you help me?
Eu preciso de alguém que possa livrar o porão do navio destes Rattos, você pode me ajudar?

I only remember I was rescued by you.#0
Eu apenas me lembro que eu fui resgatada por você.

I only remember I was rescued by you.#1
Eu apenas me lembro que eu fui resgatado por você.

I said see you later!!


I said... Why don't you come down to talk??


I see it is not easy to get rid of those rattos. Do you want to try again?
Vejo que não é fácil se livrar destes ratos. Você quer tentar novamente?

I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if he is a part of the Warrior Guild, then he is also our ally.
Entendo, avise os outros marinheiros sobre isso. Mas se ele é parte da guilda guerreira, então ele também é nosso aliado.

I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if she is a part of the Warrior Guild, then she is also our ally.
Entendo, avise os outros marinheiros sobre isso. Mas se ela é parte da guilda guerreira, então ela também é nossa aliada.

I speak English
Eu falo inglês

I speak Flemish
Eu falo flamengo

I speak French
Eu falo Francês

I speak German
Eu falo alemão

I speak Polish
Eu falo Polonês

I speak Portuguese
Eu falo Português

I speak Russian
Eu falo russo

I speak Spanish
Eu falo espanhol

I think I should report you to the crew members.
Eu acho que eu deveria te denunciar para o pessoal do navio.

I think that I'm done, I've got a box full of 


I think that I'm done, do you have a question now?


I think that I'm still a bit sick.


I think that my wine is very good quality! I'm on my second bottle and I already... What were we talking about again?


I was here when they rescued you!!


I will give her everything she needs, don't worry.
Eu vou dar tudo o que ela precisa, não se preocupe.

I will give him everything he needs, don't worry.
Eu darei tudo o que ele precisa, não se preocupe.

I will give you @@gp.
Eu te darei @@gp.

I will yaying do.
Eu vou yayando.

I will.
Eu vou.

I wonder too...
Eu também me pergunto sobre isso...

I would love to!!


I'd like to catch one of them, but they are flying away when I try.
Eu gostaria de pegar um deles, mas eles voam para longe quando eu tento.

I'll look at it.


I'll share my berries with you, if you help me.
Se você me ajudar eu compartilho minhas berries com você.

I'm a bit sick.#0


I'm a bit sick.#1


I'm called


I'm called Alige, and I've been hiding here for few weeks.
Eu me chamo Alige e eu tenho me escondido aqui por algumas semanas.

I'm doing fine!!


I'm looking for Gugli, where is he?


I'm losing my mind, I need something else to eat!
Estou perdendo a cabeça, eu preciso comer algo diferente!

I'm not that numb eeh *hick* what did ever you disco*hips*veeered there, the warrior guild won't get me!
Eu não sou tão eeh *hick* burro, seja lá o que você desco *hips* briu, a guilda guerreira não vai me pegar!

I'm not.#0


I'm not.#1


I'm still in a coma, but my ghost is haunting you!


I'm sure that you've got some questions for me, feel free to ask them, but firstly I need to tell you the rules of proper social conduct on board.


I'm very happpy to see you're okay now!


If I saw *hick* who you wereee.... *hips* Would not have helped you! 
Se eu tivese visto *hick* quem você eeera.... *hips* Não teria te ajudado! 

If you are looking for us there, mostl all of us will be at the Pedro's restaurant and in the INN for Silvio's case...


If you feel bored or like turning in circles, you may want to talk with the other sailors around here to get some tasks.


If you find something then it's good!!


If you wish to read this page again, there is a copy  up on the left wall.


If you would like to open your inventory use the F3 key or use your mouse to select it in the above menu in your client.#0


If you would like to open your inventory use the F3 key or use your mouse to select it in the above menu in your client.#1


In this cave, you see, I have lots of fun.
Eu me divirto muito nesta caverna, como você pode perceber.

Interesting... I'll leave you to your task then!


Is there a reward?


It makes sense, do you think we should inform the capt'n about it?
Faz sentido, você acha que nós devemos informar o capitão sobre isso?

It was something like a long nap.


It'll be a good time for you to do some exercise, the ship isn't big enough for that.


It's a commercial port of Andorra, it's weird that you don't know about it, it's one of the most famous cities throughout the world... But hey oh, returning to the topic! I'm hungry!
É um porto comercial de Andorra. É estranho que você não saiba disso, trata-se de uma das cidades mais famosas do mundo... Mas hey oh, retornando ao assunto! Eu estou faminto!

It's a nice place... There are some nice chicks...


It's good, good... I have a friend who is still in a coma, but I can't be with her without working...


It's nice to see that you woke up and that you are ok, Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#0
É legal saber que você acordou e está ok, Elmo veio aqui me contar a boa notícia!

It's nice to see that you woke up and that you are ok, Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#1
É legal saber que você acordou e está ok, Elmo veio aqui me contar a boa notícia!

It's ok, crew tasks are much more important than curiosity!!


It's so hard to find the motivation...


It's true!


It's where every merchant ship ends their travelling, and we won't be the exception!


It's yours as well, right?


Julia
Julia

Julia is on the upper level of the ship, use the arrow keys to walk to the stairs or click on the stairs at the top right of your screen.


LeftBarrierCheck
LeftBarrierCheck

LeftDoorCheck
LeftDoorCheck

Let me introduce myself, I'm Captain Nard, the leader of this ship.


Lettuce
Alface

Magic Arpan
Arpan Mágico

Maybe he was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior guild!
Talvez ele seja parte do grupo que se perdeu no mês passado. O yoiis de Esperia que ganhou uma missão secreta da guilda guerreira!

Maybe she was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior guild!
Talvez ela seja parte do grupo que se perdeu no mês passado. A yoiis de Esperia que ganhou uma missão secreta da guilda guerreira!

Maybe you can come down to talk?


Maybe you can look at this??


Mickael


Muller


My beauty, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!


My friend, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!


My name is Astapolos, Muller and I joined Nard's crew a few years ago when it was just a little merchant ship.


My name is Julia, it's me who took care of you, when we found you in the sea.


NO and *hick* NO, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hick* guild!#0
NÃO e *hick* NÃO, você e você e sua... *burp* estúpi*hick* guilda!

NO and *hick* NO, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hick* guild!#1
NÃO e *hick* NÃO, você e você e sua... *burp* estúpi*hick* guilda!

Nard
Nard

Nard looks surprised and stops you.


Narrator
Narrador

No problem, I can help you anyway.
Sem problemas, eu posso te ajudar mesmo assim.

No problem, do you have any other questions for me?


No!


No, I can't, I just wanted to travel across the seas for fun.
Não, eu não posso, eu só queria viajar pelos mares para me divertir.

No, thanks.
Não, obrigado.

No, they are way too dangerous for me!
Não, eles são perigosos demais para mim!

No.
Não.

Nobody will know about the existence of the Mercurians
Ninguém vai saber sobre a existência dos Mercurianos.

Nobody! *burp*
Ninguém! *burp*

None of them?


Not to kill your dream, but... Julia is mine!


Note


Nothing


Nothing else other than sharks and an odd light!!


Nothing, I need to go!


Nothing, sorry.
Nada, desculpe-me.

OK, I think he's waking up, go see to him.
Ok, eu acho que ele está acordando, vá ver como ele está.

OK, I think she's waking up, go see to her.
Ok, eu acho que ela está acordando, vá ver como ela está.

Of course! Tell me which language you speak and I will change the note on the ship board list.
É claro! Diga-me qual lingua você fala e eu mudarei a nota na lista de bordo do navio.

Of course, there is a reward for your task.


Of course, they are on the left wall, go get a look at them.


Oh good! Did he give you your money back as well?
Oh bom! Ele também deu seu dinheiro de volta?

Oh look there!!


Oh look, there is a piou behind you.


Oh no, but I've noticed a weird light on the other edge of this island, I wonder what it can be...


Oh ok, I said nothing then.


Oh really? How could I forgot a topic as important as that?


Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#0
Oh, bem, nós te resgatamos quando você estava à deriva yayando no mar.

Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#1
Oh, bem, nós te resgatamos quando você estava à deriva yayando no mar.

Oh well. I will aslo give you one of these hats from the box around you, but only after you complete your task!


Oh yeyeye, as they are not eatable, you can try to equip them!#0
Oh yeyeye, já que elas não são comestíveis você pode tentar equipá-las!

Oh yeyeye, as they are not eatable, you can try to equip them!#1
Oh yeyeye, já que elas não são comestíveis você pode tentar equipá-las!

Oh, I was going to ask you if you want to help the crew search for some food and explore the island out there.


Oh, and Olga from the market place as well!


Oh, and give her some basic clothes, the poor girl, the one she had was in even worse condition that the ones we have!
Oh, e dê a ela algumas roupas básicas. Pobre coitada, as que ela tinha estavam em condições piores do que as nossas!

Oh, and give him some basic clothes, the poor guy, the one he had was in even worse condition that the ones we have!
Oh, e dê a ele algumas roupas básicas. Pobre coitado, as que ele tinha estavam em um estado ainda pior do que as nossas.

Oh, and it's not written there but don't give the password of your room to anybody, I'm the only one who has the other key and I won't ask for yours, so keep it secret and try not to use the same one in any other room in future.


Oh, he's still alive!
Oh, ele ainda está vivo!

Oh, hey you.


Oh, it was nothing important!


Oh, it's you.


Oh, not everything, don't worry, but your name came up twice in the conversation.


Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#0


Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#1


Oh, ok!!


Oh, she's still alive!
Oh, ela ainda está viva!

Oh... Err, yes I did, or, well, good day to you!
Oh... Err, sim, ou, bem... Bom dia para você!

Ok, Done.


Ok, I will leave him alone.


Ok, I'll help you.
Ok, eu vou te ajudar.

Ok, I'm going to her room, keep an eye on her, we still don't know if she's an ally or an enemy...
Ok, eu vou até o quarto dela. Fique de olho, nós ainda não sabemos se ela é uma aliada ou uma inimiga...

Ok, I'm going to his room, keep an eye on him, we still don't know if he's an ally or an enemy...
Ok, eu vou até o quarto dele. Fique de olho, nós ainda não sabemos se ele é um aliado ou um inimigo...

Ok, be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...
Ok, tenha só mais um pouco de paciência, nos próximos dias nós vamos chegar ao porto de Artis...

Ok, but Gugli needs my help first.


Ok, ok. Come back if you change your mind.
Ok, ok. Volte se mudar de idéia.

Okay, I'm ready to work!#0
Ok, estou pronta para trabalhar!

Okay, I'm ready to work!#1
Ok, estou pronto para trabalhar!

Okay, but what can you offer me?
Ok, mas o que você pode me oferecer?

Okay, you can start!
Ok, pode começar!

On the edge of this island!!


Once the monster is dead, click with your mouse on the item to add the item he drops to your inventory or you can use the Z key to claim the drop as well.


Once your inside of your inventory, you may equip the item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. Alternately, you can unequip an item by selecting 'unequip' to remove it.#0


Once your inside of your inventory, you may equip the item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. Alternately, you can unequip an item by selecting 'unequip' to remove it.#1


Orc Voice
Voz de Orc

Other than that, I don't know much about what else is going on, so directly asking the Cap'tain about it could be a good idea.


Our crew is like a family, and if you agree to help us, I would like to invite you to join our family!


Perfect, which food did you get for me today?#0
Perfeito, qual comida você trouxe para mim?

Perfect, which food did you get for me today?#1
Perfeito, qual comida você trouxe para mim?

Peter
Peter

Piberries
Piberries

Pink Blobime


Pious legs
Pernas de Pious

Please don't touch these hats, they are for crew members only.


Please, don't tell people that you've seen me, I don't want to be thrown to sea as food for sharks or decapitated, not again!
Por favor, não saia dizendo que me viu, eu não quero ser jogado no mar como comida de tubarão ou ser decapitado, de novo não!

Quiet place,


Raijin Voice
Voz de Raijin

RattosControl
RattosControl

RightBarrierCheck
RightBarrierCheck

RightDoorCheck
RightDoorCheck

Ronan
Ronan

Rrrr pchhhh...
Rrrr pchhhh...

Sailors
Marinheiros

Sea Drop


She is a good friend of mine... We wanted to marry a few weeks before her accident but...


She is on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She is the only girl in this crew, oh well, except for you now yeyeye!
Ela está no andar de cima, yeye vai encontrá-la. Ela é a única garota da tripulação, oh, bem... além de você agora, yeyeye!

She is on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She is the only girl in this crew.
Ela está no andar de cima, yeye vai encontrá-la. Ela é a única garota da tripulação.

She is the nurse and the shipkeeper of this ship, and also an excellent chef!


She said that she will accept my application when Piou have teeth. It's just a matter of time, you see?


Silvio


Silvio starts to speak with his bottle, you leave the conversation.


So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe he comes from that guild, as that sign was on his raft.
É por isso que nós queriamos te avisar, talvez ele seja membro da tal guilda, já que aquele sinal estava na sua jangada.

So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe she comes from that guild, as that sign was on her raft.
É por isso que nós queriamos te avisar, talvez ela seja membro da tal guilda, já que aquele sinal estava na sua jangada.

So we are looking for some new merchandise that we could trade at our next destination.


So what's up?? What are you doing??


So you finally woke up? We all thought that you were in something like... You know, one of those long comas.


So, do you have anything for me today?


So, how do you feel? I see that Julia did a marvelous job! You look like you're in good health now.


So, how is it going? Did you meet any other crew members yet?
Então, como está? Já conheceu os outros membros da tripulação?

So, what was I saying?


So, what's your name??


So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet me? Or because you've heard of my feats on Artis?


So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet my Julia? Or because you wanted to see the beautiful waitress' at Artis?


Some Bandanas and Sailor Hats are inside this box.


Some more things are written down but it's not legible.


Some other strings are added to this page.


Some sailors are trying to talk to you..
Alguns marinheiros estão tentando falar com você...

Sorry but I can't tell you anything about that.
Me desculpe, mas eu não posso falar sobre isso com você.

Sorry but I have no time for this.
Me desculpe, eu não tenho tempo para isto.

Sorry! I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Arpan, but other sailors call me Magic Arpan because I know one or two yaing magic spells.
Perdão! Eu esqueci de me apresentar. Meu nome é Arpan, mas os marinheiros me chamam de Arpan Mágico, pois eu sei um ou dois encantamentos mágicos yaing.

Sorry, I am not in the mood for another fight with those rattos.
Me desculpe, não estou no clima para mais uma luta com aqueles ratos.

Suddenly, you hear a voice from the sky.
De repente você ouve uma voz vinda do céu.

Sunny and hot day,


Sure, Cap'tain.
Claro Capitão!

Take a Bandana


Take a nap


Thank you so much! Here, have some berries...
Muito obrigado! Aqui, peque algumas berries...

Thank you, I'll take them.
Obrigado, vou ficar com eles.

Thanks again for helping me. But those rattos are a permanent problem and your help is always welcome. The only problem is that I can give you a reward only one time.
Obrigado novamente pela ajuda. Mas aqueles ratos são um problema permanente e sua ajuda é sempre bem-vinda. O único problema é que eu posso te recompensar apenas uma vez.

Thanks for helping me!
Obrigado por me ajudar!

That's a nice name!!


That's right.


The door is closed.


The elven from the library has tilted on me a while ago, as well as Enora from the warrior guild.


The fear to see her sleeping on this quiet and lonely bed is becoming more and more unbearable, I think that I won't get the bravery to see her this time...


The giant boogeyman!


The sailor chugs his beer.


The sailor is turning his back to you.
O marinheiro está virando de costas para você.

The sailors take you aboard their ship to help you.
Os marinheiros te levam a bordo do navio para ajudá-lo.

There are some knifes on the table, do you want to take one?
Há algumas facas na mesa, você deseja pegar uma?

There are still some rattos left! Do you want to abort the quest?
Ainda sobraram alguns Rattos! Você quer abortar a missão?

There is a nice place to stay beside you.


There is a paper with some rules written on it.


There is nothing to say, don't worry miss.


There is nothing to say, don't worry sir.


There is some flying yellow plush around you, they're called pious. Getting a roasted leg of one of them would be perfect.
Há algumas pelúcias amarelas voadoras ao seu redor, elas são chamadas pious. Umas perninhas assadas de alguns deles seria perfeito!

This box is locked


This box is locked.
Esta caixa está trancada.

This door seems locked.


This girl is lucky that we found her before a shark did. I have no idea where this came from. By the way, did you see the logo on her raft?
Essa garota teve sorte de ter sido encontrada por nós e não por um tubarão. Eu não faço idéia de onde ela veio. Por sinal, você viu o logotipo na jangada em que ela estava?

This girl needs help, let's rescue her!
Esta moça precisa de ajuda, vamos resgatá-la!

This guy is lucky that we found him before a shark did. I have no idea where this came from. By the way, did you see the logo on his raft?
Esse garoto teve sorte de ter sido encontrado por nós e não por um tubarão. Eu não faço idéia de onde ele veio. Por sinal, você viu o logotipo na jangada em que ele estava?

This guy needs help, let's rescue him!
Essa pessoa precisa de ajuda, vamos resgatá-la!

This is a sea fruit, but some sea monsters may have them as well.


This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on her.
Este tipo de conversa deveria ser púnida, mas eu admito que eu mesmo não gosto muito deles, por isso fiquem de olho nela.

This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on him.
Este tipo de conversa deveria ser púnida, mas eu admito que eu mesmo não gosto muito deles, por isso fiquem de olho nele.

Tritan Voice
Voz de Tritão

We are in need of manpower on the island.


We are in need of manpower on the island... Oh excuse me, women are also welcome!


We made a stop at a little island, before making it to the port of Artis.


We need as many hands as possible to explore the island out there, and to get some new food.


We should be there in a few days, once we arrive, I will warn the warrior guild about what happened, I'm sure they can help.


We thought that you could help us understand this, all we know is that we found you back in the sea, adrift on your raft.
Nós pensamos que talvez você possa nos ajudar a entender isso, tudo o que sabemos é que te encontramos à deriva em alto mar em uma jangada.

We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly killed them. It's why we gave you these cloths, they are not very good but it's all that we got.#0
Nós tentamos limpá-las mas a água salgada acabou com elas. É por isso que te oferecemos estas roupas, elas não estão muito boas, mas é tudo que temos.

We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly killed them. It's why we gave you these cloths, they are not very good but it's all that we got.#1
Nós tentamos limpá-las mas a água salgada acabou com elas. É por isso que te oferecemos estas roupas, elas não estão muito boas, mas é tudo que temos.

We usually don't stop in such places, but Capt'ain let us stay here while he writes the location of this new island on his map!


We will be yaying there in a few days, so we will drop you off there.


What am I suposed to say?
O que eu devo dizer?

What are you saying guys, it's a yoiis!#0
O que vocês estão falando pessoal, é uma yoiis!

What are you saying guys, it's a yoiis!#1
O que vocês estão falando pessoal, é um yoiis!

What are you talking about? Which guild?
Sobre o que você está falando? Qual guilda?

What did you say??


What do you need?


What do you think?


What do you want today?
O que vai querer hoje?

What do you wish to do?


What happened to me?
O que aconteceu comigo?

What is Artis?
O que é Artis?

What should I do after taking these clothes?#0
O que eu devo fazer após pegar estas roupas?

What should I do after taking these clothes?#1
O que eu devo fazer após pegar estas roupas?

What yeye could I do for you today?
Qual yeye eu poderia fazer por você hoje?

What's the deal with these Aquada?


What? It's not a good reward?


What? This reward is too small!
O quê? Essa recompensa é muito pequena!

Where are my old clothes?
Onde estão minhas roupas?

Where can I find Julia?#0
Onde eu posso encontrar Julia?

Where can I find Julia?#1
Onde eu posso encontrar Julia?

Where can I find some food?
Onde eu posso encontrar comida?

Which one?


Who are you?
Quem é você?

Who is she?


Who is this Julia?
Quem é essa Julia?

Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#0
Francesinha? É uma russa!

Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#1
Porque francesinho? É um russo!

Why are you hiding?
Por que você está se escondendo?

Why don't you come down to talk?


Why don't you go outside?
Por que você não sai e vem aqui fora?

Why not, I need to train anyway.
Por que não? Eu precisava treinar mesmo.

Why not, I've got plenty of free time.


Why not... but, who are you?
Por que não... mas quem é você?

Why?


Yaya, you should go see her! She willmes be happy to see you.#0


Yaya, you should go see her! She willmes be happy to see you.#1


Yayayaya, for the first time someone is dressed worse then us!
Yayayaya, pela primeira vez alguém está vestido pior do que nós!

Yeah you're all like *hick* that in Esperia, but you won't get me! *burp*
Yeah, vocês de Espéria são todos *hick* assim, mas vocês não vão me pegar! *burp*

Yeah, but I would like to make sure I get a reward.
Yeah, mas eu gostaria de garantir que eu ganhe uma recompensa.

Yeah, but what reward will I get?
Yeah, mas qual vai ser minha recompensa?

Yes he did.
Sim, ele fez isso.

Yes!


Yes, Arpan gave me these clothes.
Sim, Arpan me deu estas roupas.

Yes, it's a chest!


Yes, please!
Sim, por favor!

Yes.
Sim.

Yeye, it's the logo of the warrior guild of Esperia, I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#0
Yeye, este é o logo da guilda de guerreiros de Espéria, eu me pergunto o que esta yoiis estava fazendo tão longe da costa.

Yeye, it's the logo of the warrior guild of Esperia, I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#1
Yeye, este é o logo da guilda de guerreiros de Espéria, eu me pergunto o que este yoiis estava fazendo tão longe da costa.

Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#0
Yeye, você é realmente sortuda de estar viva. Você está forte o suficiente para andar sozinha, por acaso se lembra do que aconteceu?

Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#1
Yeye, você é realmente sortudo de estar vivo. Você está forte o suficiente para andar sozinho, por acaso se lembra do que aconteceu?

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#0
Yeye, você ainda não pegou suas roupas!

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#1
Yeye, você ainda não pegou suas roupas!

Yeye.
Yeye.

You already took a Bandana, put this one back please.


You are full of wine, my friend...
Meu caro, você está cheio de vinho...

You are now part of the crew! Thanks again for your help.


You are on a raft, adrift in the sea.
Você está em uma jangada, à deriva em alto mar.

You are on our ship, we made port to a little island and we are actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#0


You are on our ship, we made port to a little island and we are actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#1


You can attack a monster by clicking on it or from your keyboard you can press the A key to select the monster followed by 'Ctrl' to attack it.


You can't go there!
Você não pode entrar aí!

You close your eyes a few seconds...


You could meet some of the other sailors this way, and... Getting this hat of course, will be a sign of you becoming part of our crew.


You don't remember anything before this.
Você não se lembra de nada antes disso.

You have very bad amnesia.


You honor me beauty, but I'm already taken by Julia!


You like these hats, right?


You mentioned the quality of your wine


You need to walk north!!


You receive 25GP!


You see some items in the box. Take them out?
Você vê alguns itens em uma caixa. Pegá-los?

You see these pious around? It seems that we are close to an island, we should take a look at the upper level.


You should go and get some sleep.
Você deveria dormir um pouco.

You should go see them.
Você deveria ir vê-los.

You should look at them once we arrive at the port, they are worth it, eheh.


You should try to kill some Tortugas, or some Croc if you're strong enough.


You still got a few days before we arrive at the port, maybe you can learn something from them?
Você ainda tem alguns dias antes de chegarmos ao porto, talvez você possa aprender alguma coisa com eles.

You still haven't completed your task.


You stupid, he's english, look at the shape of the head.


You stupid, she's english, look at the shape of the head.


You told me that you 'were' important.


You tried to get rid of me, eeh?? But surprise! I'm still here...*hick* Or there....
Você tentou se livrar de mim, ehh?? Mas surpresa! Eu ainda estou aqui... *hick* Ou lá...

You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#0


You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#1


You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#0


You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#1


You will see, citizens are polite and you can still ask for help in the warrior guild. They can help find a job for you or maybe help you find out what happened to you out at sea!


You're on a ship, we're on our way to the commercial capital of Artis.


You're right, it's about Julia.


You're right, it's about you.


You?? Here??
Você?? Aqui??

Your position is saved.


Zzzzzzzzzz
Zzzzzzzzzz

