Copyright (C) 2010-2012  Evol Online
*hick*
*ик*

...
...

1. Do not bot, this means that you won't run any automated tasks (Also included keyboard tricks). Any away from keyboard activity is considereted botting does not include standing still)


2, Do not spam (includes trade spam)


3, Do not multibox, this mean that you cannot have more than one active character logged in or any other active clients used for attacking in group.


4, Don't trashtalk, beg or use rude language in your character name and in the chat, at the exception of roleplay purposes.


5, Don't speak any other language other than English in the public areas. You are free to speak any language you want in private chats and when alone with groups of friends.


6, Follow the social convention listed on the RFC1855.


@@ is helping me.
@@ мне помогает.

A few moments ago, I heard your conversation with Darlin.


About this Esperia Guild, I'm not sure about them, frankly, there are rumors around that they did monstrous things and that they are hiding a lot of things from us.


About this Esperia's Guild, I wonder about them, if I may speak frankly. There are rumours going around that they did some monstrous things and that they are hiding quite alot of things from us.
Об этой Эспирийской гильдии, я понятия о них не имею, честно говоря. Ходят слухи, что они совершают ужасные вещи и многое от нас скрывают.

Acorn
Желудь

Ah... Gugli Gugli... He's too young to understand our conversation


Alige
Алидж

AligeTrigger
AligeTrigger

All that I had to eat were these berries... Berries... Berries...
И все что я мог есть были эти ягоды.... Ягоды... Ягоды...

Alright, bye!
Хорошо, пока!

Also, there was this inscription on your raft, one of the warrior guild of Esperia, the largest and biggest guild of the whole new world, does that make you remember something?
И еще, на твоем плоту была надпись Гильдии Воинов Эспирии, самой большой гильдии во всем новом мире, может быть это поможет тебе вспомнить что-нибудь?

Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In bad condition, go check the box around your bed, there is some new ones inside.#0
Мы также взяли твои йайные вещи, они были... Йейейе... В плохом состоянии. Посмотри в коробке около твоей кровати, там есть новые вещи для тебя.

Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In bad condition, go check the box around your bed, there is some new ones inside.#1
Мы также взяли твои йайные вещи, они были... Йейейе... В плохом состоянии. Посмотри в коробке около твоей кровати, там есть новые вещи для тебя.

And now I'm a sailor, as you can see!


And please, no berries. No more!
И пожалуйста, не надо ягод. Не могу их больше видеть!

And what kind of help do you need?
Какая помощь тебе нужна?

And you, how are you doing?


Anyway, maybe when you are looking for food with Gugli you'll have the time to look at this!!


Aquada
Аквада

Are you ok?
Ты в порядке?

AreaBottom
AreaBottom

AreaMiddle
AreaMiddle

AreaNPC
AreaNPC

AreaTop
AreaTop

Arrr, don't give me more berries! I don't want them, stupid berries, stupid ... stupid ... stupid!
Арррр, не давай мне больше этих ягод! Я не хочу их, дурные ягоды, дурные... дурные... дурные!

Artis of course!


As you can walk around, it'll be easy for you. Impale one of them for me!!


As you open your eyes and look around, you see a large ship.
Ты открываешь глаза и видишь большой корабль.

Astapolos


At this time, we were selling crab's food on our old mushroom island.


Be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...


Before...


BillyBons
Билли Бонс

Box
Коробка

Bread
Хлеб

But I can't tell you anything about it, I'm sorry.


But I can't, I need to keep an eye on the sea, to warn the crew if there happen to be some pirates around!!


But I need to go, bye!


But for now, you can relax on the ship, or visit the island we're docked at! Its a small island, but a good place to get some exercise and stretch your legs.


But more than anything, she is the one who took care of you when you were in coma.


But who am I?
Но кто я?

But you won't *hick* me this time...
Но ты не *ик* меня на этот раз ...

But... if he has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about him.
Но... если у него амнезия, как сказала Джулия, то... Мы можем о нем не беспокоиться.

But... if she has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about her.
Но... если у нее амнезия, как сказала Джулия, то... Мы можем о ней не беспокоиться.

Bye!


Bye.


Can I read these rules again?


Can you bring me something which isn't a vegetable?
Ты можешь принести мне что-нибудь, кроме овощей?

Cap'tain has locked the door, you should go see him.


Cap'tain is waiting for you! Hurry up.


Captain Nard
Капитан Нард

Captain Nard is in the room to your right.


Certain items perform different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor, and some can be sold for gold.#0


Certain items perform different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor, and some can be sold for gold.#1


Cheese
Сыр

Click on the NPCs around you to continue the introduction.
Нажмите на NPC вокруг, чтобы продолжить вступление.

Congrats!
Прими поздравления!

Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#0
Можно узнать, на каком языке ты говоришь? Один матрос сказал, что на русском, другой - на французском... Я запуталась. Я запишу тебя в корабельный список.

Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#1
Можно узнать, на каком языке ты говоришь? Один матрос сказал, что на русском, другой - на французском... Я запуталась. Я запишу тебя в корабельный список.

Could you explain to me where I am?
Можешь мне объяснить, где я?

Could you help me please? 
Можешь мне помочь?

Could you tell me where I am?#0
Ты можешь мне сказать, где я?

Could you tell me where I am?#1
Ты можешь мне сказать, где я?

Croc Claw


Damn you! You better not tell anyone that you've seen me!#0
Черт тебя побери! Не говори никому, что ты меня здесь видела!

Damn you! You better not tell anyone that you've seen me!#1
Черт тебя побери! Не говори никому, что ты меня здесь видел!

Dan
Дэн

Dan closes the conversation and he continues to write his letter.


Dan keeps silent since your last question.


Darlin


Devis
Дэвис

Did you find out what the light is?!


Did you say reward? I want it!
Ты сказал награда? Я хочу её!

Do you feel better??


Do you have an other question for me?
У тебя еще есть ко мне вопросы?

Do you have any other questions for me?


Do you have anything for me today?
У тебя есть что-нибудь для меня?

Do you hear me??


Do you want me to go see her in your place?


Does somebody know a good place to look in Esperia? - M. Arpan


Don't do do theee... *hick* with me eh!
Не делай этоооо... *ик* со мной, э!

Don't give the password of your room to anybody! Keep it secret and try not to use the same one in any other room in future. - Julia


Don't try to poison me! I know what that does!
Я знаю, для чего это - не пытайся меня отравить!

DoorUpwards
DoorUpwards

Duty is calling me, *hic*, see you later dude.


Duty is calling me, *hic*, see you later honey.


Eheh!


Ehoo


Elmo
Элмо

Elven Voice


Err, seriously, I just wanted to get to Artis, and I haven't got the money to pay for the ferry!
Эм, знаешь, я только хочу добраться до Артиса, но у меня нет денег, чтобы оплатить путешествие!

Excuse me, but what did you say?? Speak louder!!


Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#0
Извини? Ты не знаешь, кто я?

Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#1
Извини? Ты не знаешь, кто я?

Fine!


Fine, bye!!


From what I know, Gugli, my brother, needs the help of as many people as possible to collect all of the new things found on the island.


Fungus
Фунгус

Ggrmm grmmm...
Гррммммм гррмммм...

Go outside and talk with Gugli, he will tell you what we need.


Good job!
Хорошая работа!

Good to know.


Good!!


Good, good! 
Прекрасно, прекрасно!

Ground,


Gugli


Have you seen anything dangerous?


He he... OK, I'm going to the upper level and inform the captain.
Хм... Хорошо, я пойду наверх к капитану и все ему расскажу.

He is right in the bottom of the ship, you can't miss him!!


He told me nothing about that.
Он мне ничего об этом не рассказывал.

He's funny, it's not a problem.


Hear me *hick* well, what ever, whatididever you will*hick*said ab...euh..out wha?! You saw there, the Guild of Esperia won't let it go to public.
Слышь, ты *ик* ну, что ты там будешь *ик* гово..ох..рить о чем?! Ты видел, Гильдия Эспирии не будет это афишировать.

Hehe, no. But I'm sure that a dude like you would like to meet a gentleman like me.


Hehe, no. But I'm sure that a lady like you would love to meet a charmer like me!


Hehe, sometimes he gets his head in the clouds, You should go ask him about that.
Хехе, иногда он витает в облаках. Тебе следует пойти спросить его об этом.

Hehehe, he is a bit nervous, please excuse him, it's not everyday that we get a new member in the crew!
Хе-хе-хе, он немного нервный, прости уж его, не каждый день у нас пополнение в команде!

Hello dear!


Hello sir!


Hello.


Hello... Should I know you?


Here they are.


Here's your reward!
Вот твоя награда!

Hey


Hey Frenchy!#0
Эй, француженка!

Hey Frenchy!#1
Эй, француз!

Hey Silvio, it's your turn to carry the package, go!


Hey hey


Hey you! Do you hear us? Are you okay?
Эй! Ты нас слышишь? Ты в порядке?

Hey you, sorry for leaving your room so quickly, I needed to... speak with the Captain about... The reserve.. eh, you know, now that we got a new mouth in the crew we need to check it!
Слушай, прости, что ухожу так быстро, мне нужно... поговорить с Капитаном о... запасах.. ты знаешь, теперь, когда у нас прибавился еще один рот в команде, нам нужно проверить их!

Hey! Be careful. You can't stay in this basement for so long, you are going to get sick. Come outside and take a break, maybe you can try again later.
Эй, осторожнее! Ты не можешь оставаться в подвале долго, а то заболеешь! Выходи и передохни, может быть потом попробуешь еще.

Hey! Ehoo!!


Hey, don't worry about him, it's one the first days in a while we can chill.


Hey, girl!
Привет!

Hey, man!
Эй ты!

Hey, psst! You're not a sailor, right?
Эй, псс! Ты не матрос, так?

Hey, you can't sleep here, it's my room.
Эй, ты не можешь здесь спать! Это - моя комната!

Hey, you should go see Julia to be registered on the ship board.
Стой, тебе следует поговорить с Джулией, чтобы она записала тебя в список.

Hi, nice to see you!#0
Приветствую!

Hidden person
Прячущийся

Hidden person doesn't answer.


How about I ask you to help the crew? It would mean that you're one of us, and that you will be able to get one of these hats.


How are things going?


How do you know my name?


How is *hick* possible??
Как *ик* возможно?

How is it going cutie?


How is it going dude?


I also watch for dangerous animals...


I am not worried about rewards. I just want to help.
Меня не волнует награда. Я просто хочу помочь

I am, who are you?#0
Верно, я не матрос. А ты кто?

I am, who are you?#1
Верно, я не матрос. А ты кто?

I beg you, please, pleeeease...
Я тебя умоляю, пожжжалуйста, пожжжжалуйста...

I can't remember anything.#0
Я ничего не могу вспомнить.

I can't remember anything.#1
Я ничего не могу вспомнить.

I don't have anything good for you today.
У меня сегодня нет для тебя ничего хорошего.

I don't know what to say...


I don't need any help right now, come back later.


I don't need your help right now, come back later.
Сейчас мне не нужна твоя помощь, приходи позже.

I don't think that we are in a good place to talk about this...


I don't understand!!


I don't want this, give me something else.
Я не хочу это, принеси мне что-нибудь еще.

I don't want to change my language, sorry.
Я не хочу менять свой язык, прости.

I feel better!


I feel ok.#0
Я в порядке.

I feel ok.#1
Я в порядке.

I forgot where it was.


I guess so... I will leave you alone.


I hope that answers your question...


I hope that you don't mind that we used your raft to build this ramp.


I know that you just came back from being sick, but I would like to ask of you a special task.


I like this answer!


I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#0
Я ошиблась и хочу поменять свой язык.

I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#1
Я ошибся и хочу поменять свой язык.

I need help for cleaning the wedge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help me.#0
Мне нужна помощь по очистке подвала корабля, но, боюсь, у тебя силенок не хватит.

I need help for cleaning the wedge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help me.#1
Мне нужна помощь по очистке подвала корабля, но, боюсь, у тебя силенок не хватит.

I need somebody who can clean the bottom of the ship of these Ratto, can you help me?
Мне нужен кто-то, кто может очистить подвал корабля от этих крыс, ты можешь мне помочь?

I only remember I was rescued by you.#0
Я помню только, что была спасена тобой.

I only remember I was rescued by you.#1
Я помню только, что был спасен тобой.

I said see you later!!


I said... Why don't you come down to talk??


I see it is not easy to get rid of those rattos. Do you want to try again?
Я вижу, что не так уж и просто избавиться от этих крыс. Хочешь еще раз попробовать?

I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if he is a part of the Warrior Guild, then he is also our ally.
Я вижу. Предупреди других матросов об этом. Но если он состоит в Гильдии Воинов, то он еще и наш союзник.

I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if she is a part of the Warrior Guild, then she is also our ally.
Ясно. Предупреди других матросов об этом. Но если она состоит в Гильдии Воинов, то она еще и наш союзник.

I speak English
Я говорю по-английски

I speak Flemish
Я говорю по-фламандски

I speak French
Я говорю по-французски

I speak German
Я говорю по-немецки

I speak Polish
Я говорю по-польски

I speak Portuguese
Я говорю по-португальски

I speak Russian
Я говорю по-русски

I speak Spanish
Я говорю по-испански.

I think I should report you to the crew members.
Мне следует рассказать о тебе команде.

I think that I'm done, I've got a box full of 


I think that I'm done, do you have a question now?


I think that I'm still a bit sick.


I think that my wine is very good quality! I'm on my second bottle and I already... What were we talking about again?


I was here when they rescued you!!


I will give her everything she needs, don't worry.
Я дам ей все, что ей нужно, не беспокойся.

I will give him everything he needs, don't worry.
Я дам ему все что ему нужно, не беспокойся.

I will give you @@gp.
Я дам тебе @@gp

I will yaying do.
Я прослежу йейе.

I will.
Да.

I wonder too...
Я тоже удивлен...

I would love to!!


I'd like to catch one of them, but they are flying away when I try.
Я хотел бы поймать одну из них, но они улетают от меня, когда я подхожу близко.

I'll look at it.


I'll share my berries with you, if you help me.
Я поделюсь с тобой ягодами, если ты мне поможешь.

I'm a bit sick.#0


I'm a bit sick.#1


I'm called


I'm called Alige, and I've been hiding here for few weeks.
Меня зовут Алидж, я прячусь здесь уже несколько недель.

I'm doing fine!!


I'm looking for Gugli, where is he?


I'm losing my mind, I need something else to eat!
Я теряю рассудок, мне нужно съесть что нибудь другое!

I'm not that numb eeh *hick* what did ever you disco*hips*veeered there, the warrior guild won't get me!
Я не такой беспомощный ээх*ик* что бы ты там ни разу*ик*знааааал, гильдии Воинов меня не достать!

I'm not.#0
Не угадал.

I'm not.#1
Не угадал.

I'm still in a coma, but my ghost is haunting you!


I'm sure that you've got some questions for me, feel free to ask them, but firstly I need to tell you the rules of proper social conduct on board.


I'm very happpy to see you're okay now!


If I saw *hick* who you wereee.... *hips* Would not have helped you! 
Если бы *ик* знал кто ты такооо... *ик* Не помогал бы тебе!

If you are looking for us there, mostl all of us will be at the Pedro's restaurant and in the INN for Silvio's case...


If you feel bored or like turning in circles, you may want to talk with the other sailors around here to get some tasks.


If you find something then it's good!!


If you wish to read this page again, there is a copy  up on the left wall.


If you would like to open your inventory use the F3 key or use your mouse to select it in the above menu in your client.#0


If you would like to open your inventory use the F3 key or use your mouse to select it in the above menu in your client.#1


In this cave, you see, I have lots of fun.
В этой пещере, ты видишь, много интересного.

Interesting... I'll leave you to your task then!


Is there a reward?


It makes sense, do you think we should inform the capt'n about it?
Это меняет дело. Как ты думаешь, стоит сообщить об этом капитану?

It was something like a long nap.


It'll be a good time for you to do some exercise, the ship isn't big enough for that.


It's a commercial port of Andorra, it's weird that you don't know about it, it's one of the most famous cities throughout the world... But hey oh, returning to the topic! I'm hungry!
Это торговый порт Андорры. Странно, что ты об этом не знаешь, это один из самых знаменитых городов в мире... Но эй, ох, вернемся к теме! Я хочу есть!

It's a nice place... There are some nice chicks...


It's good, good... I have a friend who is still in a coma, but I can't be with her without working...


It's nice to see that you woke up and that you are ok, Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#0
Приятно знать, что ты очнулась и ты в порядке, Элмо пришел сообщить мне эту прекрасную новость!

It's nice to see that you woke up and that you are ok, Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#1
Приятно знать, что ты очнулся и ты в порядке, Элмо пришел сообщить мне эту прекрасную новость!

It's ok, crew tasks are much more important than curiosity!!


It's so hard to find the motivation...


It's true!


It's where every merchant ship ends their travelling, and we won't be the exception!


It's yours as well, right?


Julia
Джулия

Julia is on the upper level of the ship, use the arrow keys to walk to the stairs or click on the stairs at the top right of your screen.


LeftBarrierCheck
LeftBarrierCheck

LeftDoorCheck
LeftDoorCheck

Let me introduce myself, I'm Captain Nard, the leader of this ship.


Lettuce
Капуста

Magic Arpan
Маг Арпан

Maybe he was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior guild!
Может, он из тех, кто потерялся в прошлом месяце? Йоис из Эспирии, у которого есть секретное задание Гильдии Воинов!

Maybe she was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior guild!
Может, она из тех, кто потерялся в прошлом месяце? Йоис из Эспирии, у которой есть секретное задание Гильдии Воинов!

Maybe you can come down to talk?


Maybe you can look at this??


Mickael


Muller


My beauty, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!


My friend, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!


My name is Astapolos, Muller and I joined Nard's crew a few years ago when it was just a little merchant ship.


My name is Julia, it's me who took care of you, when we found you in the sea.


NO and *hick* NO, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hick* guild!#0
НЕТ и еще *ик* НЕТ, ты и ты и твоя *урп* тупа*ик* гильдия!

NO and *hick* NO, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hick* guild!#1
НЕТ и еще *ик* НЕТ, ты и ты и твоя *урп* тупа*ик* гильдия!

Nard
Нард

Nard looks surprised and stops you.


Narrator
Рассказчик

No problem, I can help you anyway.
Без проблем, я все равно могу тебе помочь

No problem, do you have any other questions for me?


No!


No, I can't, I just wanted to travel across the seas for fun.
Нет, не могу. Хотелось просто попутешествовать за моря - просто так, веселья ради.

No, thanks.
Нет, спасибо.

No, they are way too dangerous for me!
Нет, они слишком опасны для меня!

No.
Нет.

Nobody will know about the existence of the Mercurians
Никто не узнает о существовании Меркурийцев

Nobody! *burp*
Никто! *бурп*

None of them?


Not to kill your dream, but... Julia is mine!


Note


Nothing
Ничего

Nothing else other than sharks and an odd light!!


Nothing, I need to go!


Nothing, sorry.
Ничего, прости.

OK, I think he's waking up, go see to him.
Ладно, я думаю, он просыпается, иди к нему.

OK, I think she's waking up, go see to her.
Ладно, я думаю, она просыпается, иди к ней.

Of course! Tell me which language you speak and I will change the note on the ship board list.
Конечно! Скажи на каком языке ты разговариваешь, и я поменяю твою запись в списке.

Of course, there is a reward for your task.


Of course, they are on the left wall, go get a look at them.


Oh good! Did he give you your money back as well?
О, хорошо! Он также вернул тебе твои деньги?

Oh look there!!


Oh look, there is a piou behind you.


Oh no, but I've noticed a weird light on the other edge of this island, I wonder what it can be...


Oh ok, I said nothing then.


Oh really? How could I forgot a topic as important as that?


Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#0
Ну, мы спасли тебя, когда ты йайала на плоту по течению в море.

Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#1
Ну, мы спасли тебя, когда ты йайал на плоту по течению в море.

Oh well. I will aslo give you one of these hats from the box around you, but only after you complete your task!


Oh yeyeye, as they are not eatable, you can try to equip them!#0
Йейейе, так как они не съедобные, то ты можешь попробовать одеть их!

Oh yeyeye, as they are not eatable, you can try to equip them!#1
Йейейесть не вкусно, но можешь попробовать одеть!

Oh, I was going to ask you if you want to help the crew search for some food and explore the island out there.


Oh, and Olga from the market place as well!


Oh, and give her some basic clothes, the poor girl, the one she had was in even worse condition that the ones we have!
О, и дайте ей простой одежды. Бедняга, ее старая одежда в еще более плохом состоянии, чем наша!

Oh, and give him some basic clothes, the poor guy, the one he had was in even worse condition that the ones we have!
О, и дайте ему простой одежды. Бедняга, его старая одежда в еще более плохом состоянии, чем наша!

Oh, and it's not written there but don't give the password of your room to anybody, I'm the only one who has the other key and I won't ask for yours, so keep it secret and try not to use the same one in any other room in future.


Oh, he's still alive!
О, он еще жив!

Oh, hey you.


Oh, it was nothing important!


Oh, it's you.


Oh, not everything, don't worry, but your name came up twice in the conversation.


Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#0


Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#1


Oh, ok!!


Oh, she's still alive!
Ой, она еще жива!

Oh... Err, yes I did, or, well, good day to you!
Ох.. Эм, да, или, ну, хорошего тебе дня!

Ok, Done.


Ok, I will leave him alone.


Ok, I'll help you.
Хорошо, я помогу тебе.

Ok, I'm going to her room, keep an eye on her, we still don't know if she's an ally or an enemy...
Хорошо, я иду в ее комнату. Присмотрите за ней, еще неизвестно, друг она или враг...

Ok, I'm going to his room, keep an eye on him, we still don't know if he's an ally or an enemy...
Хорошо, я иду в его комнату. Присмотрите за ним, еще неизвестно, друг он или враг...

Ok, be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...
Ладно, потерпи еще немного, через несколько дней мы прибудем в порт Артиса...

Ok, but Gugli needs my help first.


Ok, ok. Come back if you change your mind.
Хорошо, хорошо. Возвращайся, если передумаешь.

Okay, I'm ready to work!#0
Хорошо, я готова к работе!

Okay, I'm ready to work!#1
Хорошо, я готов к работе!

Okay, but what can you offer me?
Хорошо, но что ты можешь предложить мне?

Okay, you can start!
Хорошо, ты можешь начинать!

On the edge of this island!!


Once the monster is dead, click with your mouse on the item to add the item he drops to your inventory or you can use the Z key to claim the drop as well.


Once your inside of your inventory, you may equip the item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. Alternately, you can unequip an item by selecting 'unequip' to remove it.#0


Once your inside of your inventory, you may equip the item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. Alternately, you can unequip an item by selecting 'unequip' to remove it.#1


Orc Voice
Голос орка

Other than that, I don't know much about what else is going on, so directly asking the Cap'tain about it could be a good idea.


Our crew is like a family, and if you agree to help us, I would like to invite you to join our family!


Perfect, which food did you get for me today?#0
Отлично, что ты для меня припасла сегодня?

Perfect, which food did you get for me today?#1
Отлично, что ты для меня припас сегодня?

Peter
Питер

Piberries
Пижевика

Pink Blobime
Розовый Слизеком

Pious legs
Ножки пиуса

Please don't touch these hats, they are for crew members only.


Please, don't tell people that you've seen me, I don't want to be thrown to sea as food for sharks or decapitated, not again!
Пожалуйста, не говори никому, что ты видел меня, я не хочу, чтобы меня выбросили за борт на корм акулам!

Quiet place,


Raijin Voice
Голос раджина

RattosControl
RattosControl

RightBarrierCheck
RightBarrierCheck

RightDoorCheck
RightDoorCheck

Ronan
Ронан

Rrrr pchhhh...
Хррр пшшшш...

Sailors
Моряки

Sea Drop
Капли морской воды

She is a good friend of mine... We wanted to marry a few weeks before her accident but...


She is on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She is the only girl in this crew, oh well, except for you now yeyeye!
Она наверху, не пропустишь йейеее. Она единственная девушка на корабле... ой, ну теперь за исключением тебя йейейе!

She is on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She is the only girl in this crew.
Она наверху, не пропустишь йейеее. Она единственная девушка в команде.

She is the nurse and the shipkeeper of this ship, and also an excellent chef!


She said that she will accept my application when Piou have teeth. It's just a matter of time, you see?


Silvio


Silvio starts to speak with his bottle, you leave the conversation.


So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe he comes from that guild, as that sign was on his raft.
Вот почему мы хотели предупредить тебя, может быть он из той гильдии, знак которой был на плоту.

So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe she comes from that guild, as that sign was on her raft.
Вот почему мы хотели предупредить тебя, может быть, она из той гильдии, знак которой был на плоту.

So we are looking for some new merchandise that we could trade at our next destination.


So what's up?? What are you doing??


So you finally woke up? We all thought that you were in something like... You know, one of those long comas.


So, do you have anything for me today?


So, how do you feel? I see that Julia did a marvelous job! You look like you're in good health now.


So, how is it going? Did you meet any other crew members yet?
Как у тебя дела? Ты встретился с кем-нибудь из команды кроме меня?

So, what was I saying?


So, what's your name??


So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet me? Or because you've heard of my feats on Artis?


So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet my Julia? Or because you wanted to see the beautiful waitress' at Artis?


Some Bandanas and Sailor Hats are inside this box.
Внутри - несколько бандан и бескозырок.

Some more things are written down but it's not legible.


Some other strings are added to this page.


Some sailors are trying to talk to you..
Некоторые матросы пытаются заговорить с тобой..

Sorry but I can't tell you anything about that.
Прости, я не могу тебе ничего об этом рассказать.

Sorry but I have no time for this.
Прости, у меня нет на это времени.

Sorry! I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Arpan, but other sailors call me Magic Arpan because I know one or two yaing magic spells.
Прости, я забыл представиться. Меня зовут Арпан, но другие матросы называют меня Маг Арпан, потому что я знаю пару заклинаний.

Sorry, I am not in the mood for another fight with those rattos.
Извини, я не в настроении для еще одной схватки с крысами.

Suddenly, you hear a voice from the sky.
Внезапно ты слышишь голос с неба.

Sunny and hot day,


Sure, Cap'tain.
Конечно, Капитан.

Take a Bandana
Взять бандану

Take a nap
Вздремнуть

Thank you so much! Here, have some berries...
Огромное тебе спасибо! Вот, возьми немного ягод...

Thank you, I'll take them.
Спасибо, я возьму их.

Thanks again for helping me. But those rattos are a permanent problem and your help is always welcome. The only problem is that I can give you a reward only one time.
Еще раз спасибо за помощь. Но все равно крысы - постоянная проблема и ты можешь помочь мне в этом еще, когда захочешь. Вот только вознаградить тебя я мог лишь раз.

Thanks for helping me!
Спасибо за помощь!

That's a nice name!!


That's right.


The door is closed.


The elven from the library has tilted on me a while ago, as well as Enora from the warrior guild.


The fear to see her sleeping on this quiet and lonely bed is becoming more and more unbearable, I think that I won't get the bravery to see her this time...


The giant boogeyman!


The sailor chugs his beer.


The sailor is turning his back to you.
Матрос отворачивается от тебя.

The sailors take you aboard their ship to help you.
Матросы взяли тебя на корабль, чтобы помочь тебе.

There are some knifes on the table, do you want to take one?
На столе несколько ножей, взять один?

There are still some rattos left! Do you want to abort the quest?
Там еще есть крысы! Хочешь отложить задание?

There is a nice place to stay beside you.
Рядом есть неплохое место, чтобы побыть здесь.

There is a paper with some rules written on it.


There is nothing to say, don't worry miss.


There is nothing to say, don't worry sir.


There is some flying yellow plush around you, they're called pious. Getting a roasted leg of one of them would be perfect.
Тут водятся летающие желтые курицы, их называют пиуc. Заполучить жареную ножку такой было бы неплохо.

This box is locked
Коробка заперта

This box is locked.
Коробка заперта

This door seems locked.
Похоже, дверь заперта.

This girl is lucky that we found her before a shark did. I have no idea where this came from. By the way, did you see the logo on her raft?
Этой девушке повезло, мы нашли ее до того, как это сделали акулы. Я понятия не имею откуда она приплыла. Кстати, вы видели знак на ее плоту?

This girl needs help, let's rescue her!
Этой девушке нужна помощь, давайте спасем ее!

This guy is lucky that we found him before a shark did. I have no idea where this came from. By the way, did you see the logo on his raft?
Этому парню повезло, мы нашли его до того, как это сделали акулы. Я понятия не имею откуда он приплыл. Кстати, вы видели знак на его плоту?

This guy needs help, let's rescue him!
Этому парню нужна помощь, давайте спасем его!

This is a sea fruit, but some sea monsters may have them as well.


This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on her.
Такие разговоры наказуемы, но я соглашусь, что тоже не очень их люблю, так что приглядывай за ней.

This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on him.
За такие разговоры может влететь... но, признаться, я тоже не в восторге от этих ребят. Так что приглядывай за ним.

Tritan Voice
Голос тритана

We are in need of manpower on the island.


We are in need of manpower on the island... Oh excuse me, women are also welcome!


We made a stop at a little island, before making it to the port of Artis.


We need as many hands as possible to explore the island out there, and to get some new food.


We should be there in a few days, once we arrive, I will warn the warrior guild about what happened, I'm sure they can help.


We thought that you could help us understand this, all we know is that we found you back in the sea, adrift on your raft.
Мы думали, ты можешь помочь нам разобраться в этом. Все, что мы знаем, - это то, что тебя подобрали с плота, плывущего по течению в море.

We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly killed them. It's why we gave you these cloths, they are not very good but it's all that we got.#0
Мы пытались привести их в порядок, но морская вода их практически уничтожила. Поэтому мы дали тебе эти вещи, они не очень хорошие, но это все, что у нас есть.

We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly killed them. It's why we gave you these cloths, they are not very good but it's all that we got.#1
Мы пытались привести их в порядок, но морская вода их практически уничтожила. Поэтому мы дали тебе эти вещи, они не очень хорошие, но это все, что у нас есть.

We usually don't stop in such places, but Capt'ain let us stay here while he writes the location of this new island on his map!


We will be yaying there in a few days, so we will drop you off there.


What am I suposed to say?
Что я должен сказать?

What are you saying guys, it's a yoiis!#0
Что вы говорите, ребята, это йойс!

What are you saying guys, it's a yoiis!#1
Что вы говорите, ребята, это йойс!

What are you talking about? Which guild?
О чем ты говоришь? Какая гильдия?

What did you say??


What do you need?


What do you think?


What do you want today?
Чего ты хочешь сегодня?

What do you wish to do?
Что бы сейчас сделать?

What happened to me?
Что со мной случилось?

What is Artis?
Что такое Артис?

What should I do after taking these clothes?#0
Что я должна делать после того, как возьму одежду?

What should I do after taking these clothes?#1
Что мне следует делать после того, как я возьму эти вещи?

What yeye could I do for you today?
Что йейе могу сделать для тебя?

What's the deal with these Aquada?


What? It's not a good reward?


What? This reward is too small!
Что? За такую маленькую награду?!

Where are my old clothes?
Где мои старые вещи?

Where can I find Julia?#0
Где я могу найти Джулию?

Where can I find Julia?#1
Где я могу найти Джулию?

Where can I find some food?
Где я могу найти немного еды?

Which one?


Who are you?
Ты кто?

Who is she?


Who is this Julia?
Кто эта Джулия?

Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#0
Почему француженка? Она русская!

Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#1
Почему француз? Он русский!

Why are you hiding?
Почему ты прячешься?

Why don't you come down to talk?


Why don't you go outside?
Почему ты не выходишь наружу?

Why not, I need to train anyway.
Почему бы и нет, мне все равно нужно тренироваться.

Why not, I've got plenty of free time.


Why not... but, who are you?
Почему бы и нет... но кто ты?

Why?


Yaya, you should go see her! She willmes be happy to see you.#0


Yaya, you should go see her! She willmes be happy to see you.#1


Yayayaya, for the first time someone is dressed worse then us!
Йайайайа, в первый раз кто-то одевается хуже, чем мы!

Yeah you're all like *hick* that in Esperia, but you won't get me! *burp*
Ага, вы все такие *ик* в Эспирии, но тебе меня не победить!*урп*

Yeah, but I would like to make sure I get a reward.
Ага, но я хочу убедится что получу награду.

Yeah, but what reward will I get?
Да, но что я получу взамен?

Yes he did.
Да.

Yes!


Yes, Arpan gave me these clothes.
Да, Арпан дал мне эти вещи.

Yes, it's a chest!


Yes, please!
Да, пожалуйста!

Yes.
Да.

Yeye, it's the logo of the warrior guild of Esperia, I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#0
Йейе, это знак гильдии воинов Эспирии, я понятия не имею что эта йоис делала так далеко от побережья.

Yeye, it's the logo of the warrior guild of Esperia, I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#1
Йейе, это знак гильдии воинов Эспирии, я понятия не имею, что этот йоис делал так далеко от побережья.

Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#0
Йейе, тебе повезло, что ты выжил. Сейчас ты в хорошей форме, ты помнишь, что случилось?

Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#1
Йейе, тебе повезло, что ты выжил. Сейчас ты в хорошей форме, ты помнишь, что случилось?

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#0
Ты йейеще не забрала свою одежду!

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#1
Ты йейеще не забрал свою одежду!

Yeye.
Йейе.

You already took a Bandana, put this one back please.
У тебя уже есть бандана, верни эту на место, пожалуйста.

You are full of wine, my friend...
Ты пьян, мой друг...

You are now part of the crew! Thanks again for your help.
Теперь ты - член команды! Еще раз спасибо за помощь.

You are on a raft, adrift in the sea.
Ты находишься на плоту, плывущем по течению в море

You are on our ship, we made port to a little island and we are actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#0


You are on our ship, we made port to a little island and we are actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#1


You can attack a monster by clicking on it or from your keyboard you can press the A key to select the monster followed by 'Ctrl' to attack it.


You can't go there!
Ты не можешь здесь находиться!

You close your eyes a few seconds...
Ты моргаешь пару секунд...

You could meet some of the other sailors this way, and... Getting this hat of course, will be a sign of you becoming part of our crew.


You don't remember anything before this.
Ты не помнишь ничего до этого.

You have very bad amnesia.


You honor me beauty, but I'm already taken by Julia!


You like these hats, right?


You mentioned the quality of your wine


You need to walk north!!


You receive 25GP!


You see some items in the box. Take them out?
Ты видишь вещи в ящике. Взять их?

You see these pious around? It seems that we are close to an island, we should take a look at the upper level.


You should go and get some sleep.
Тебе нужно поспать.

You should go see them.
Ты должен пойти и увидеть их.

You should look at them once we arrive at the port, they are worth it, eheh.


You should try to kill some Tortugas, or some Croc if you're strong enough.


You still got a few days before we arrive at the port, maybe you can learn something from them?
У тебя все еще есть несколько дней до того, как мы прибудем в порт, может, ты можешь научиться чему-нибудь у них?

You still haven't completed your task.


You stupid, he's english, look at the shape of the head.


You stupid, she's english, look at the shape of the head.


You told me that you 'were' important.


You tried to get rid of me, eeh?? But surprise! I'm still here...*hick* Or there....
Хотел от меня избавиться, да? Сюрприз! Я еще здесь.. *ик* Или там...

You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#0


You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#1


You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#0


You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#1


You will see, citizens are polite and you can still ask for help in the warrior guild. They can help find a job for you or maybe help you find out what happened to you out at sea!


You're on a ship, we're on our way to the commercial capital of Artis.


You're right, it's about Julia.


You're right, it's about you.


You?? Here??
Ты?? Здесь??

Your position is saved.
Позиция сохранена.

Zzzzzzzzzz
Zzzzzzzzzz

