Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Evol Online
'That', as you call it, is a @@. There're plenty on this island!


*Imitate a thunder's sound.*
*Imitar el sonido de un trueno*

*Uff*, *Argh*, why don't you give me some help?
*Uff*, *Argh*, ¿Por qué no me ayudas un poco?

*Uff*... And another box of @@s for our starving colleagues is ready.


*hic*
*hic*

- 2 @@
- 2 @@

- Ale
- Ale

- Astapolos
- Astapolos

- Gulukan
- Gulukan

- Jalad
- Jalad

- Q'Muller


- Tibbo
- Tibbo

... And 1 @@.
...Y 1 @@.

... and 1 @@.


1. Do not bot. This means you are not allowed to use any automation programs or use keyboard tricks. Any away from keyboard activity will be considered as botting except standing still.


2. Do not spam. This also concerns trade spam.
2. No hagas spam. Incluido el spam comercial. 

3. Do not multi box. This means you cannot have more than one active character logged in at a time. You are not allowed to use more than one active client at a time to attack in groups.


4. Do not trash talk, beg or use rude language in your character name or in the chat, except for role play purposes.


5. Do not speak any other language than English in public areas. You are free to speak any language you want in private chats or when alone with friends.
5. No hables otro idioma distinto del Ingles en áreas publicas. Eres libre de hablar cualquier idioma que quieras en chats privados o cuando estés a solas con amigos. 

6. Follow the social convention listed on the RFC1855 article.


@@ is helping me.
@@ está ayudándome.

@@? Welcome my dear!#0


@@? Welcome my dear!#1


A great city, now the capital of these islands, called Esperia, rose on the single island, Aurora, where everyone lived.


A sunny and hot day,
Un soleado y caluroso día,

Aaaaaahhhhhh!
¡Aaaaaahhhhhh!

Aboard stand sailors trying to communicate with you.


About this Esperia's Warrior Guild, I'm not sure about them, frankly.
Acerca de este gremio de los Esperia, no estoy seguro acerca de ellos, francamente.

Acorn
Bellota

Actually Gugli asked me if I could help you bringing him some of your boxes.#0


Actually Gugli asked me if I could help you bringing him some of your boxes.#1


Actually, I came here to work on my task.#0


Actually, I came here to work on my task.#1


Actually, I have an in-depth knowledge of this type of life.


Aemil is a magnificent world unknown to us all.


After choosing your weapon, you also need to know how to use it.


Ah... Gugli... He's too young to understand our conversation.


Ale


Ale and Tibbo should bring 2 boxes of @@s, Astapolos and Gulukan 2 of @@s and Jalad and Q'Muller were charged of the boxes of @@s.
Ale y Tibbo deben traer 2 cajas de @@s, Astapolos y Gulukan 2 de @@s y Jalad y Q'Muller son encargados de las cajas de @@s.

Ale.
Ale.

Alige
Alige

AligeTrigger
AligeTrigger

All your... Fresh ingredients are ready to be cooked.
Todos tuyos... Ingredientes frescos listos para ser cocinados.

Alright! Yoyone more box and it'll be good.


Alright, I'm going to his room, keep an eye on her, we still don't know if she's an ally or an enemy...
Muy bien. Voy a su dormitorio. Mantén un ojo sobre ella; aún no sabemos si es una aliada o una enemiga...

Alright, I'm going to his room, keep an eye on him, we still don't know if he's an ally or an enemy...
Muy bien. Voy a su dormitorio. Mantén un ojo sobre él; aún no sabemos si es un aliado o un enemigo...

Alright. I will go looking for them now.
Bien. Iré a buscarlos ahora.

Alright... Bye.
Muy bien... Adiós.

Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In a bad shape. Go check the chest near your bed, there are some other ones inside.#0
También, nosotros tomamos tus yayed ropas, como estaban... Yeyeye... En malas condiciones. Ve a revisar el cofre cerca de tu cama, hay otras en el interior.

Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In a bad shape. Go check the chest near your bed, there are some other ones inside.#1
También, nosotros tomamos tus yayed ropas, como estaban... Yeyeye... En malas condiciones. Ve a revisar el cofre cerca de tu cama, hay otras en el interior.

An unexpected help is always welcome!


And now I want to see you run!
¡Y ahora quiero verte correr!

And now I'm a sailor, as you can see!
Y como puedes ver, ¡ahora soy un marinero!

And then what happened?


And what do you give me in exchange for these informations?
Y ¿qué me darás a cambio de esta información?

And you, how are you doing?
¿Y tú, cómo estas?

And you? How's it going on your side?
¿Y a ti? ¿Cómo te ha ido de tu lado?

And you? How's it yaying on your side?
¿Y a ti? ¿Cómo te yaying de tu lado?

Any clue on where Astapolos may be hidden?


Anyway I am glad I can give you some of these yoyoxs.


Anyway, can I help you in any way?
Como sea... ¿Puedo ayudarte de algún modo?

Anyway, if you ever feel interested, just check my bag!#0


Anyway, if you ever feel interested, just check my bag!#1


Aquada
Aquada

Aquada Box
Caja de Aquada

Are you blind? Do you really think these boxes are light and soft as a piou's feather?!


Are you going to stand here all day long? Do the dishes or go away.


Are you mad?!


Are you ok?
¿Está usted bien?

Are you yaying here to explore the island?#0


Are you yaying here to explore the island?#1


AreaNPC
AreaNPC

AreaTop
AreaTop

Arrr, don't give me more berries! I don't want them, stupid berries, stupid... Stupid... Stupid!
Arrr, ¡No me des más bayas! ¡No las quiero, estúpidas bayas... estúpidas... estúpidas... estúpidas!

Artis of course!
¡Artis por supuesto!

As they sailed on Oceania, great waters of Aemil, one of the groups found a land.


As you may know, we are long distance travelers and our whole crew needs to store enough food to survive. You don't know how dangerous the sea life can be.


As you open your eyes, you see a large ship before you.
Al abrir los ojos, ves un gran barco ante ti.

Ask sailors around here they shouldn't be so far away.


Astapolos


Astapolos.
Astapolos. 

Astapolos... That guy is shy like a piou!


At the moment, our crew is busy collecting @@s, @@s and @@s.
Por el momento, nuestra tripulación esta ocupada recolectando @@s, @@s y @@s.

At this time, we were selling crab food on our old mushroom island.
En este momento, estábamos vendiendo comida de cangrejo en nuestra vieja isla hongo.

Awesome!
¡Asombroso!

Ayouyouch! My head...
¡Ayouyouch! Mi cabeza...

BUT I CAN'T, I NEED TO KEEP AN EYE ON THE SEA, TO WARN THE CREW IF THERE HAPPENS TO BE SOME PIRATES AROUND!
¡PERO NO PUEDO, DEBO VIGILAR EL MAR, PARA ADVERTIR A LA TRIPULACIÓN SI  APARECEN ALGUNOS PIRATAS A LOS ALREDEDORES!

Bag
Bolsa

Bare Hands
Manos desnudas.

Be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...
Sé paciente un poco más, en los siguientes dias llegaremos al puerto de Artis...

Before you go, let me tell you how to get @@s, because you don't look very smart.


Before...
Antes...

BillyBons
BillyBons

Box
Caja

Bread
Pan

Break the door.
Rompe la puerta.

Bring this box to Gugli. He will be extremely happy!
Llévale esta caja a Gugli. ¡Él se pondrá muy feliz.!

But I can't tell you anything about it, I'm sorry.
Pero no puedo decirte nada al respecto. Lo siento.

But I need to go, see you!
Pero necesito ir, ¡nos vemos!

But I swear that one day... Oh... My tasty revenge! Hhm, actually I wonder if... Maybe...
Pero juro que un día... Oh... ¡Mi dulce venganza! Hmm, de hecho me pregunto si... Tal vez...

But anyway, take the road which goes to the north to find everybody.


But for now, you can relax on the ship, or visit the island we're docked at! Its a small island, but a good place to get some exercise and stretch your legs.
Pero por ahora, puedes relajarte en el barco, o visitar la isla en la que hemos atracado. Es una isla pequeña, pero un buen lugar para ejercitar tus piernas.

But let's talk about this island. We're docking here to find some fine quality goods.


But most important, she is the one who took care of you when you were unconscious.#0
Pero lo más importante, ella fue quien te cuidó cuando estabas inconsciente.

But most important, she is the one who took care of you when you were unconscious.#1
Pero lo más importante, ella fue quien te cuidó cuando estabas inconsciente.

But remember that not every place in this world is peaceful and safe nowadays. Even the white shores you are walking on can hide some dangerous beings.


But who am I?
Pero, ¿quién soy yo?

But you won't *hic* me this time...
Pero tú no me *hic* esta vez.

But... If he has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about him.
Pero... Si él tiene amnesia como dice Julia... No es necesario preocuparnos por él.

But... If she has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about her.
Pero... Si ella tiene amnesia tal como dijo Julia... No necesitamos preocuparnos por ella.

Bye!
¡Adiós!

CAN YOU HEAR ME?!
¡¿PUEDES OÍRME?!

Can I read these rules again?
¿Puedo leer estas reglas de nuevo?

Can't you see I'm working?!


Captain Nard
Capitán Nard

Captain Nard is in the room to your right.
El Capitán Nard esta en la habitación a tu derecha.

Cheese
Queso

Chef Gado


Chest


Click on the NPCs around you to continue the introduction.
Haz clic en los NPCs en derredor para continuar la introducción.

Come on, Sap! You are scaring our guest with your stories.#0


Come on, Sap! You are scaring our guest with your stories.#1


Congratulations!
¡Felicitaciones!

Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#0
¿Puedo preguntarte cuál es tu lenguaje nativo? Un marinero me dijo que eras rusa, pero otro me dijo que eras francesa... Estoy un poco perdida. Te registraré en la lista de embarque del buque sólo después de eso.

Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#1
¿Puedo preguntarte cuál es tu lenguaje nativo? Un marinero me dijo que eras ruso, pero otro me dijo que eras francés... Estoy un poco perdida. Te registraré en la lista de embarque del buque sólo después de eso.

Could you explain to me where I am?
¿Podrías explicarme dónde estoy?

Could you please bring me something which isn't a vegetable? And I beg you, no berries!


Could you tell me where I am?#0
¿Podrías decirme dónde estoy?

Could you tell me where I am?#1
¿Podrías decirme dónde estoy?

Couwan


Couwan gave me this box, it is for you.
Couwan me dio esta caja, es para ti. 

Couwan hands you a box full of fish.


Croc Claw
Garra de Croc

Croconut
Croconut

Croconut Box
Caja de Croconut

DO YOU FEEL BETTER?!
¡¿TE SIENTES MEJOR?!

Damn @@.
Maldición @@.

Damn you! You'd better not tell anyone you saw me!#0


Damn you! You'd better not tell anyone you saw me!#1


Dan
Dan

Dan ends the conversation and resumes to write his letter.
Dan termina la conversación y vuelve a escribir su carta. 

Dan keeps silent since your last question.
Dan se quedó callado desde tu última pregunta.

Darlin


Devis
Devis

Did you say reward? I want it!
¿Has dicho recompensa? ¡La quiero!

Do not give the password of your room to anybody! Keep it secret and try not to use the same one in any other room in the future. - Julia


Do you have any other questions for me?
¿Tienes alguna pregunta más para mi?

Do you have anything for me today?
¿Tienes algo para mí el día de hoy?

Do you know where can I find Gulukan?
¿Sabes dónde puedo encontrar a Gulukan?

Do you need any other information?
¿Necesitas más información?

Do you think this is fair? They sent me down here alone, far away from everyone.


Do you want me to go see her instead of you?
¿Quieres que vaya a verla en tu lugar?

Do you want to cut this @@?
¿Quieres cortar este @@?

Do you want to try?
¿Quieres intentar?

Does somebody know a good place to hang out in Esperia? - M. Arpan
¿Alguien conoce un buen lugar donde pasar el rato en Esperia? - M. Arpan

Doesn't he like the way I'm taking care of his ship? Everything is clean and tidy with me, rightful lieutenant of La Johanne.


Don't bother her Silvio, or I'll to tell her that you cry like a baby when you hear the thunder in the night.
No la molestes Silvio, o le diré que lloras como un bebe cuando escuchas un trueno en la noche.

Don't bother him Silvio, or I'll to tell him that you cry like a baby when you hear the thunder in the night.
No lo molestes Silvio, o le diré que lloras como un bebe cuando escuchas un trueno en la noche.

Don't do theee... *hic* with me eh!
¡No te hagas eeel... *hic* conmigo eh!

Don't try to poison me! I know what that does!
No me envenenes! Yo se lo que hace!

Done. Here, take it! Now here is the plan. Go talk with her and offer our beautiful lady a bite of her arrogance!


DoorUpwards
DoorUpwards

Duty calls me, *hic*, see you later dude.
El deber me llama, *hic*, nos vemos luego amigo. 

Duty calls me, *hic*, see you later honey.
Duty me llama, *hic*, nos vemos luego, cariño.

Each of the groups was ordered to sail in a different direction to find a new, suitable land where to live.


Ehm... He was really upset because of some past stories.
Ehm... Él estaba realmente molesto por algunas historias del pasado.

Elmo
Elmo

Elmo and Gugli told me that you did all of the tasks outside, congrats!


Elmo reported me about some frictions between my old and new lieutenants. You probably already met Julia and Gado the Chef.


Elmo told me what Nard said, congrats!
Elmo me contó lo que Nard dijo, ¡felicidades!

Elmo told me you are now considered as one of us on the island. And I do appreciate the efforts you did down there.


Elven Voice
Voz de Elven

Err, seriously, I just wanted to get to Artis, but I didn't have enough money to pay for the ferry!


Even though they did not hear anything about the other groups, they decided to start a new life on this land, full of harmful animals.


Exactly. Even our task is ridiculous. Why should we collect food down here if we have plenty of those tasty and soft rattos inside our ship, waiting just to be hunted and cooked?


Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#0
¿Perdón? ¿Sabe usted quién soy yo?

Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#1
¿Perdón? ¿Sabe usted quién soy yo?

FINE, BYE!
ESTÁ BIEN ¡ADIÓS!

Fexil


Fine, could you please tell me where I can find Gugli's sailors?
Bien, ¿podrías por favor decirme dónde puedo encontrar a los marineros de Gugli?

Fine... I was just going to give you some help...


Following these lines are some other writings on this paper.


Fool! Just come back here when you'll be done with our little... 'Secret mission'.


From what I know, Gugli, my brother, needs the help of as many people as possible to collect all of the new things found on the island.
Por lo que se, Gugli, mi hermano, necesita toda la ayuda posible para recolectar todas las cosas nuevas que encontró en la isla.

Fungus
Hongo

GOOD!
¡BIEN!

Gado! That coward lives in the past, I will ask Nard to punish him, again!


Ggrmm... Grmmmm...
Ggrmm... Grmmmm...

Give me a kiss before you say goodbye!
¡Dame un beso antes de decir adiós!

Give me back this dish now, you dirty liar!


Go and grab one of them. A good knife will help you hunting the creatures of this island.


Go away.
Vete.

Good job!
¡Buen trabajo!

Good luck! And don't forget to visit Peter and our little friends when you will be back onboard!


Good to hear!


Good to know.
Es bueno saberlo.

Good, good... Hey, could you help me please? I beg you, please, pleeeease...


Great to see you! What can I do for you today?
¡Me alegro de verte! ¿Qué puedo hacer por ti hoy?

Great!
¡Estupendo!

Great, what food do you have for me today?#0
Genial, pero qué comida tiene para mi hoy.

Great, what food do you have for me today?#1
Genial, pero qué comida tiene para mi hoy.

Greetings traveler.#0
Saludos viajera.

Greetings traveler.#1
Saludos viajero.

Gugli
Gugli

Gugli asked me to help sailors with their food gatherings. Do you know where could I find them?#0


Gugli asked me to help sailors with their food gatherings. Do you know where could I find them?#1


Gugli asked me to help you carrying one of these boxes you are filling.#0


Gugli asked me to help you carrying one of these boxes you are filling.#1


Gugli mentioned six sailors. What about the others?
Gugli mencionó a seis marineros. ¿Qué hay sobre los otros?

Gugli sent me down here to help you.#0


Gugli sent me down here to help you.#1


Gugli? Oh I see. Yes, Gugli yeye pretty used to shout orders to everybody down here.


GugliBarrierCheck


Gulukan


Gulukan.
Gulukan.

HE IS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SHIP, DOWN THE STAIRS. YOU CAN'T MISS HIM!


HEY! HEY YOU!
¡Oye! ¡OYE TÚ!

HEY, WHAT'S YOUR NAME?!
¡OYE, ¿CUÁL ES TU NOMBRE?!

Hahaha! All sailors aboard this ship are always drunk... Well... Except... Wait, what?! Nard told you?!


Half Croconut


Harpy-lady?


Have you collected all the ingredients for my recipe? The special one too?


Have you seen anything dangerous?
¿No has visto nada peligroso?

He likes to hide near the little lake in the north-west side of the island.


He needs more food.
Él necesita más comida.

He told me nothing about that.
Él no me dijo nada sobre eso.

He's funny, it's not a problem.
Él es divertido, eso no es un problema.

Hear me *hic* well, what ever, whatididever you will *hic* said ab... uhm... out what?! You saw there, the Warrior Guild of Esperia won't let it get public.
Escúchame *hic* bien, lo que nunca, ¿!lo que nunca te hice *hic* diré ace...euh..rca qué?! Te vi allí, el Gremio de Esperia no lo dejará salir al público.

Hehe!
¡Jeje!

Hehe, no. But I'm sure a boy like you would like to meet a gentleman like me.
Jeje, no. Pero estoy seguro de que un chico como tu le gustaría conocer a un caballero como yo.

Hehe, no. But I'm sure a lady like you would love to meet a charmer like me!


Hehe, sometimes he gets his head in the clouds, You should go ask him about that.
Jeje, algunas veces su cabeza se va por las nubes. Deberías ir y preguntarle acerca de eso.

Hehe... Ok, I'm going to inform the capt'n up there.


Hehehe, he is a bit nervous, please forgive him, it is not everyday we have a new member in the crew!
Jejeje, él esta un poco nervioso, por favor discúlpalo, ¡no todos los días tenemos un nuevo miembro en la tripulación!  

Hel... What?! Wait!


Hello dear!#0
¡Hola querida!

Hello dear!#1
¡Hola querido!

Hello yeye.
Hola yeye.

Hello.
Hola.

Hello... Do I know you?
Hola... ¿Te conozco?

Here they are.
Aqui están.

Here's your reward!
¡Aquí está tu recompensa!

Hey Frenchy!#0
¡Oye, Francesa!

Hey Frenchy!#1
¡Oye, Francés!

Hey Max, it's @@!
¡Oye Max, esto es @@!

Hey Silvio, it's your turn to carry the package, go!
Oye, Silvio, es tu turno de cargar el paquete, ¡ve!

Hey you!
¡Oye tu!

Hey you! Can you hear us? Are you okay?
¡Oye, tú! ¿Puedes escucharnos? ¿Estás bien?

Hey you, sorry for leaving your room so quickly, I needed to... Speak with the captain about... The reserve. You know, now that we have a new mouth to feed, we need to check what we have.


Hey!
¡Oye!

Hey! Be careful. You can't stay in this basement for so long, you're going to get sick. Come outside and take a break, maybe you can try again later.
¡Oye! Ten cuidado. No puedes quedarte en ese sótano por mucho tiempo, puedes enfermarte. Ven afuera y toma un poco de aire, puedes probar nuevamente mas tarde.

Hey! There's a reward for you in the box next to me!
¡Oye! ¡Hay una recompensa para ti en la caja junto a mí!

Hey, could yeye please take my box of fish to Gugli?
Oye, ¿podrías yeye por favor llevarle mi caja de pescado a Gugli?

Hey, don't worry about him, it's one of the first days in a long time that we can just chill out.
Oye, no te preocupes por él. Es el primer día en mucho tiempo en el que podemos sólo relajarnos.

Hey, girl!
¡Oye, chica!

Hey, man!
¡Oye, hombre!

Hey, psst! You're not a sailor, right?
¡Oye, psst! Tú no eres un marinero, ¿cierto?

Hey.
Oye.

Hi @@, I heard the captain sent you down here, uh?#0


Hi @@, I heard the captain sent you down here, uh?#1


Hi @@.
Hola @@.

Hi! I can finally see you under the sunlight!


Hi, nice to see you!
¡Hola, me alegro de verte!

Hidden Person
Persona escondida.

Hmm... Let's see, take this one.


Hmmm, hm... *cough*, *cough*, *burp*, *cough*. What... What is that?!... *cough*, *burp*... Damn Gado... *cough*
Hmmm, hm... *tos*, *tos*, *eructo*, *tos*. ¡¿Qué... Qué es eso?!... *tos*, *eructo*... Maldición Gado... *tos*

How about I ask you to help the crew? It would mean that you're one of us and that you will be able to get one of these hats.
¿Qué tal si te pido que ayudes a la tripulación? Eso significaría que eres uno de nosotros y que podrás recibir uno de estos gorros.

How are things going?
¿Cómo van las cosas?

How are you doing, cutie?


How are you doing, dude?
¿Cómo estas, amigo?

How are you feeying, now that you walk on steady land? Yeye better?


How could you... We said we wouldn't talk about this again...
¿Cómo pudiste?... Dijimos que no hablaríamos acerca de eso de nuevo ... 

How is *hic* it possible?
¿Cómo es *hic* posible?

How rude! What is the reason behind your malice?


However, drought came with summers while winters became colder than ever.


However...
Sin embargo...

Hurry, hurry! We need to check his teeth!
¡Deprisa, deprisa! ¡Tenemos que revisar sus dientes!

I ALSO AVOID THE DANGEROUS ANIMALS!
¡TAMBIÉN EVITO LOS ANIMALES PELIGROSOS!

I AM DOING FINE!
¡LO ESTOY HACIENDO BIEN!

I DO NOT UNDERSTAND!
¡NO ENTIENDO!

I SAID, SEE YOU LATER!
¡HE DICHO, NOS VEMOS LUEGO!

I WAS HERE WHEN THEY RESCUED YOU!
¡YO ESTABA AQUÍ CUANDO TE RESCATARON!

I WOULD LOVE TO!
¡ME ENCANTARÍA!

I already know everything. Bye.
Ya lo sé todo. Adiós.

I am not worried about rewards. I just want to help.
No estoy preocupado por la recompensa. Sólo quiero ayudar.

I am sure that I can run with one of them on my shoulder.#0
Estoy segura que puedo correr con una de estas en el hombro.

I am sure that I can run with one of them on my shoulder.#1
Estoy seguro que puedo correr con una de estas en el hombro.

I am sure you know her. Nice dress, large smile and a constant flux of orders and rules. Julia they call her!


I am surprised someone has been sent here for help. It is quite... unusual.


I am, who are you?#0
Yo soy, quien eres?#0

I am, who are you?#1
Yo soy, quien eres?#1

I can't really help you find them since I've been checking the... Hmm... Landscape, since morning...
Realmente no puedo ayudarte a encontrarlos ya que he estado revisando el... Hmm... Paisaje, desde la mañana... 

I can't remember anything.#0
No puedo recordar nada.

I can't remember anything.#1
No puedo recordar nada.

I do feel better!
¡Si, me siento mejor!

I do not want to point my finger on someone. I just put my trust in you. I am sure you will be able to judge and solve this annoying problem.


I don't have anything good for you today.
Hoy no tengo nada bueno para ti.

I don't know what to say...
No sé que decir...

I don't need your help right now, come back later.
No necesito tu ayuda en este momento, vuelve luego.

I don't see anything else than... water?
No veo nada más que... ¿agua?

I don't think that we are in a good place to talk about this...
No creo que nos encontremos en un buen lugar para hablar de esto...

I don't want to change my language, sorry.
No quiero cambiar mi lenguaje, lo siento.

I feel ok.#0
Me siento bien.

I feel ok.#1
Me siento bien.

I give tasks to every single sailor, all day long. That should make him happy!


I give you this key, it opens any doors on this ship.


I guess so... I will leave you alone.
Supongo... Te dejaré solo.

I have brought you a tasty present for your delicate mouth.


I have collected all the boxes you needed.


I have some clothes and other things for you at a fine price!
¡Tengo algo de ropa y otras cosas para ti a un buen precio!

I have some food for you.
Tengo algo de comida para ti.

I heard rumors about some old hostilities between you and Gado. Are they true?


I hope that answers your question.
Espero haber respondido tu pregunta.

I hope you don't mind that we used your raft to build this ramp.
Espero que no te importe que usáramos tu balsa para construir esta rampa.

I informed Julia about your monstrous plan.


I just realized I needed delicious ingredients to prepare a... A special recipe.


I know that you are just starting to feel better, but I'd like to give you a special task.
Sé que hasta ahora estas empezando a sentirse mejor, pero me gustaría darte un trabajo especial. 

I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#0
Cometí un error, me gustaría cambiar mi lenguaje.

I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#1
Cometí un error, me gustaría cambiar mi lenguaje.

I need help for clean the edge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help.#0
Necesito ayuda para limpiar el borde de la nave, pero no eres lo suficientemente fuerte para ayudar.

I need help for clean the edge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help.#1
Necesito ayuda para limpiar el borde de la nave, pero no eres lo suficientemente fuerte para ayudar.

I need somebody who can clean the bottom of the ship of these rattos. Can you help me?


I need to go, sorry.
Tengo que ir, lo siento.

I only need 2 @@, 1 @@, 1 @@ and...
Sólo necesito 2 @@, 1 @@ y...

I only need 2 @@, 2 @@s, 1 @@...


I only remember I was rescued by you.#0
Yo sólo recuerdo que fui rescatado por ti.

I only remember I was rescued by you.#1
Yo sólo recuerdo que fui rescatada por ti.

I recall seeing Gulukan, Astapolos and Q'Muller.


I remember I saw few of them leaving the ship early this morning to get to work.


I said... WHY DON'T YOU COME DOWN TO TALK?
Dije... POR QUÉ NO BAJAS A HABLAR.

I see it's not easy to get rid of these rattos. Do you want to try again?


I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if he is a part of the Warrior Guild, then he is also our ally.
Ya veo, advierte a los otros marineros acerca de esto. Pero si él es parte del Gremio Guerrero, entonces es también nuestro aliado.

I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if she is a part of the Warrior Guild, then she is also our ally.
Ya veo, advierte a los otros marineros acerca de esto. Pero si ella es parte del Gremio Guerrero, entonces es también nuestra aliada.

I see. Bye!


I swear, I do not eat so much.
Te lo juro, no como mucho.

I think I should report you to the crew members.
Creo que debería reportarte a los miembros de la tripulación.

I think I'm done with that now. Do you have any questions?


I think that I'm soon done since I'll soon have a box full of @@s!


I think that I'm still a bit sick.
Creo que todavía estoy un poco enfermo.

I think that my wine has a great quality! I'm on my second bottle and I already... What were we talking about again?


I think that yeye's soon be done. Yeye'll soon have a full box of @@s!


I was going to ask you if you would need any help.


I will give you @@ GP.


I will not tell you all the details, but after a month, she was ruling the ship and I was sent down here, cooking for those traitors!


I will surely visit him. Do you need any help with your boxes?


I will take care of the other ones don't worry.


I will take it! Thank you captain!


I will yaying do.
Lo haré, yaying .

I will.
Lo haré.

I wonder too...
Me pregunto si...

I'M CALLED, @@!
¡MI NOMBRE ES, @@!

I'd like to catch one of them, but they are flying away when I try.
Me gustaría atrapar uno de ellos, pero salen volando lejos cuando lo intento.

I'll give her everything she needs, don't worry.
Yo le daré todo lo que necesite, no te preocupes.

I'll give him everything he needs, don't worry.
Yo le daré todo lo que necesita, no te preocupes.

I'll share my berries with you if you help me.
Compartiré mis bayas contigo si me ayudas.

I'm a bit sick...#0
Estoy un poco enferma...

I'm a bit sick...#1
Estoy un poco enfermo...

I'm glad to see you're okay.#0
Me alegra ver que estas bien.

I'm glad to see you're okay.#1
Me alegra ver que estas bien.

I'm glad you are on my side.


I'm looking for Gugli, where is he?
Estoy buscando a Gugli, ¿dónde está?

I'm losing my mind here, I need something else to eat!


I'm not suited for this kind of work!
¡No soy el adecuado para este tipo de trabajo!

I'm not sure. They probably left the ship early this morning. I was not awake yet.


I'm not that numb eeh *hic* what did ever you disco... *hic* ...vered there, the Warrior Guild won't get me!
No soy tan insensible eeh *hic* que nunca deeeeees*hips*cubriste allí, ¡el Gremio Guerrero no me atrapará!

I'm sorry but I have no time to chat with you.


I'm sorry for your situation. They should change with another sailor from times to times.#0


I'm sorry for your situation. They should change with another sailor from times to times.#1


I'm sorry, I don't have time right now.
Lo siento, no tengo tiempo ahora.

I'm still a bit weak at the moment. We should probably talk later.#0
Aún estoy un poco débil. Probablemente deberíamos hablar después. 

I'm still a bit weak at the moment. We should probably talk later.#1
Aún estoy un poco débil. Probablemente deberíamos hablar después. 

I'm still busy, I need to find the other sailors.
Aún estoy ocupado, necesito encontrar a los otros marineros.

I'm still in a coma, but my ghost is haunting you!
¡Aún estoy en coma, pero mi fantasma te está acechando!

I'm sure Tibbo is alone in the south-west corner of the island. He believes it's the best place to collect @@s.


I'm sure he will soon be able to fight all of the creatures living here without any problem.


I'm sure she will soon be able to fight all of the creatures living here without any problem.


I'm sure that you've got some questions for me, feel free to ask them, but firstly I need to tell you the rules of proper social conduct on board.
Estoy seguro que tienes algunas preguntas para mi, eres libre de preguntar lo que quieras, pero primero déjame decirte las reglas de conducta a bordo.

I'm the cook's assistant of the ship. I help Gado, La Johanne's Chef, in his daily work.
Soy el asistente de cocina de la nave. Ayudo a Gado, el Chef de La Johanne, en su trabajo diario.

I've seen him at the bottom of the island, check around.


I've seen him at the bottom of the island, have a look around.


I've seen him at the top of the island.
Lo he visto en la cima de la isla.

I've seen him on the bottom of the island, ask Jalad for more information.


I...
Yo...

If I saw *hic* who you were... *hic* Would not have helped you! 
Si hubiese visto *hic* quién eras... *hic* ¡No te habría ayudado!

If you feel bored or like turning in circles, you may want to talk with the other sailors around here to get some tasks.
Si te aburres o te cansas de dar vueltas en circulo, tal vez quieras hablar con los marineros en los alrededores para que te den algunas tareas.

If you want to read this page again, there is a copy up on the left wall.
Si deseas leer esta hoja de nuevo, hay una copia  arriba en la pared izquierda.

If you're looking for us there, mostly all of us will be at Pedro's restaurant and in the Inn for Silvio's case...


In fact, everything seems to work perfectly under your guidance. Nard has made the right choice.


Indeed! Goodbye.
¡Por supuesto! Adiós.

Indeed, I am not.#0
De hecho, no lo soy.

Indeed, I am not.#1
De hecho, no lo soy.

Interested?#0


Interested?#1


Interesting... I'll leave you to your task then!
Interesante... ¡Entonces le dejaré con su tarea!

Is there a reward?
¿Hay alguna recompensa?

It is nice to see that you woke up fine at the same time. Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#0
¡Es agradable ver que has despertado y que estás bien! Elmo vino aquí a darme estas buenas noticias.

It is nice to see that you woke up fine at the same time. Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#1
¡Es agradable ver que has despertado y que estás bien! Elmo vino aquí a darme estas buenas noticias.

It looks like you are an expert of the life inside 'La Johanne'. Do you know any hidden secrets nobody knows?#0


It looks like you are an expert of the life inside 'La Johanne'. Do you know any hidden secrets nobody knows?#1


It looks like you can't carry anything else for now.


It seems that we're close to an island, we should take a look at the upper level.
Parece que estamos cerca de una isla, deberíamos ir a ver el nivel superior.

It seems that you need a key to open this door.


It seems you still have some work to do.


It was something like a long nap.
Fue algo así como una larga siesta.

It would be good for you to do some exercise, the ship isn't big enough for that.


It's a commercial port of Andorra, it's weird that you don't know about it since it is one of the most famous cities throughout the world. But hey, returning to the topic, I'm hungry!
Es un puerto comercial de Andorra, es raro que no sepas de él ya que es una de las ciudades mas famosas del mundo. Pero, volviendo al tema... ¡Estoy hambriento!

It's a kind of mushroom. We call it like that because of it's taste, just like a marshmallow. It also has this name because of it's appearance, it looks like a plush!


It's a kind of mushroom. We call it like that because of it's taste, just like a marshmallow. It also has this name because of it's appearance. It looks like a plush!


It's alright! Just one more box and it'll be ok.
¡Está bien!

It's good, good... I have a friend who is still in a coma, but I can't be with her without working...
Está bien, está bien... Tengo una amiga que todavia está en coma, pero no puedo estar con ella sin trabajar...

It's ok.
Esta bien.

It's so hard to find the motivation...
Es tan dificil encontrar la motivación...

It's true!
¡Es verdad!

It's where every merchant ship end their road and we won't be an exception.


Items have different effects. Some will heal you, some can be used as weapons or armor, and some can be sold for gold.


Its inhabitants did not know any kind of horror and in peace they lived as the earth gave them everything they needed to live.


Jalad


Jalad.
Jalad.

Julia
Julia

Julia is on the upper level of the ship, use the arrow keys to walk to the stairs or click on the stairs at the top right of your screen.
Julia está en el nivel superior del barco, usa las flechas del teclado para caminar hasta las escaleras o haz clic en las escaleras en el vértice superior derecho de tu ventana.

Just hit the trunk, and it will yeye a @@.
Sólo dale al baúl y éste te yeye un @@.

Just leave me alone.
Simplemente déjame solo. 

Knife
Cuchillo

Last time I saw you, you were lost in the sea on your raft.#0
La última vez que te vi, estabas perdida en el mar en tu balsa.

Last time I saw you, you were lost in the sea on your raft.#1
La última vez que te vi, estabas perdido en el mar sobre tu balsa.

Lean


Lean for example?
¿Lean por ejemplo?

LeftBarrierCheck
LeftBarrierCheck

LeftDoor


LeftDoorCheck
LeftDoorCheck

Let me introduce myself, I am Nard, captain of this ship.
Permíteme presentarme, soy Nard, capitán de este barco.

Let me see... Crispy legs, disgusting liquids... Let's start!


Let's say the person who told me about that is well respected on this ship and never drunk.


Lettuce Leaf


Living inside a ship is great, but we sometimes need some fresh air.


Look how splendid this landscape is!


Look, here he is!
¡Mira, aquí esta él!

Look, there he is!
¡Mira, ahí está él!

M... Maybe?
¿T...Tal vez?

Magic Arpan
Magic Arpan

Max
Max

Max and Sapartan for example?
¿Max y Spartan por ejemplo?

May this be a lesson for you.
Que esto sea una lección para ti. 

Maybe he abused too much his bottle today to celebrate that!
Tal vez él abusó demasiado de su botella hoy para celebrar.

Maybe he was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior Guild!
¿Tal vez él fue uno de los que se perdieron el mes pasado? ¡El yoiis de Esperia que tenía una misión secreta del Gremio de Guerreros!

Maybe she was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior Guild!
¿Tal vez ella fue una de los que se perdieron el mes pasado? ¡El yoiis de Esperia que tenía una misión secreta del Gremio Guerrero!

Maybe you can come down to talk?
¿Tal vez puedas bajar a hablar?

Maybe... But I prefer having well-trained people around me when it comes to fight against dangerous creatures. Do you already feel expert on how you fight enemies?#0


Maybe... But I prefer having well-trained people around me when it comes to fight against dangerous creatures. Do you already feel expert on how you fight enemies?#1


My beauty, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!
Mi bella, no siempre fui un marinero, sabes. ¡Yo fui una vez una persona importante!

My friend, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!
Mi amigo, no siempre fui un marinero, sabes. ¡Yo fui una persona importante!

My name is Alige, I've been hiding here for weeks. All I have to eat are these berries... berries... berries...


My name is Astapolos. Q'Muller and I joined Nard's crew a few years ago when it was just a little merchant ship.
Mi nombre es Astapolos. Q'Muller y yo nos unimos a la tripulación de Nard hace algunos años cuando tan solo era un pequeño barco mercante.

My name is Julia, it is me who took care of you after we found you in the sea.
Mi nombre es Julia, yo soy quien te cuidó después de que te encontráramos en el mar. 

NOTHING ELSE OTHER THAN SHARKS AND AN ODD LIGHT!
¡NADA MÁS QUE TIBURONES Y UNA EXTRAÑA LUZ!

Nard
Nard

Nard looks surprised and stops you.
Nard parece estar sorprendido y te para.

Narrator
Narrador

New technologies helped the slaughter instead of establishing peace. At some point, two different rivals were formed.


No and *hic*... No, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hic* guild!#0
¡No y *hic*... No, tú y tú y su... *eructo* estúpi *hic* gremio!

No and *hic*... No, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hic* guild!#1
¡No y *hic*... No, tú y tú y su... *eructo* estúpi *hic* gremio!

No problem, I can help you anyway.
No hay problema, te puedo ayudar de todos modos.

No problem, do you have any other questions for me?
No pasa nada, ¿tienes mas preguntas que hacerme?

No thanks, not at the moment.


No there are no secrets hidden below the ship's wood. Some sailors swear they have seen people hidden somewhere near the stow. Just stories sailors love to tell...


No!
¡No!

No, I can't, I just wanted to travel across the seas for fun. In this cave, you see, I have a lot of fun.


No, I don't, but I would like to know more about that.


No, indeed. I was here to help you with those boxes. Can I bring one of them back to Gugli?#0


No, indeed. I was here to help you with those boxes. Can I bring one of them back to Gugli?#1


No, none.
No, ninguna.

No, sorry.
No, lo siento.

No, they are way too dangerous for me!
No, ¡son demasiado peligrosos para mi!

No.
No.

Nobody will know about the existence of the Mercurians.
Nadie sabrá acerca de la existencia de los Mercurianos

Nobody! *burp*
¡Nadie! *eructo*

Nobody.
Nadie.

None of them?
¿Ninguno de ellos?

Not everybody has a kind mind. Scammers can be anywhere, even among us!


Not so good actually... I would feel better on Nard's ship.


Not to kill your dream, but... Julia is mine!
No quiero matar tus sueños, pero... ¡Julia es mía!

Not yet. I will be back soon.
Todavía no. Volveré pronto.

Note


Nothing, just hanging around.
Nada, solo matando el tiempo.

Nothing, sorry.
Nada, lo siento.

Nothing.
Nada.

Now go outside and talk with Gugli, he'll tell you what we need.


Now move!


Now, leave me alone...
Ahora, déjame solo...

OH, LOOK THERE!
¡OH, MIRA ALLÍ!

Of course! Tell me which language you speak and I will change the note on the ship board list.
¡Por supuesto! Dime cuál idioma hablas y cambiaré la nota en la lista de embarque de esta nave.

Of course, they are on the left wall, go have a look at them.
Por su puesto, están en la pared izquierda, ve y échales un vistazo. 

Oh I see... Sailors are not able to do their job anymore, is it like that?!


Oh alright, nevermind then.
Oh, bien. Entonces no importa.

Oh good! Did he give you your money back as well?
¡Oh, bien! ¿También te regresó tu dinero?

Oh look, there's a piou behind you!
¡Oh mira, hay un piou detrás de ti!

Oh no, but I've noticed a weird light on the other edge of this island, I wonder what it can be...
Oh no, pero he notado una luz rara al otro lado de la isla, me pregunto qué sera...

Oh really? How could I forget something as important as that?!


Oh really? I'll put more food in the next box then.
¿En serio? Entonces pondré más comida en la siguiente caja. 

Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#0
Oh, bueno... te rescatamos cuando estabas yaying a la deriva en el mar.

Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#1
Oh, bueno... te rescatamos cuando estabas yaying a la deriva en el mar.

Oh well. I'll also give you one of these hats from the box near you, but only after you complete your task!


Oh yeyeye... As they are not edible, you can maybe try to equip them?#0
Oh yeyeye... como no son comestibles, ¿podrías intentar equiparlos?

Oh yeyeye... As they are not edible, you can maybe try to equip them?#1
Oh yeyeye... como no son comestibles, ¿podrías intentar equiparlos?

Oh! And in one of the room of the second deck you can find Gado's knives. Our chef keeps there the sharpest ones... Probably not just to cut some carrots...


Oh! I like that sort of answer!
¡Oh! ¡Me gusta esa clase de respuesta!

Oh, I see. That's right. Why should someone come here to see me, seriously?


Oh, I was going to ask you if you wanted to help the crew search for some food and explore the island out there.


Oh, and I almost forgot! Do not give the password of your room to anybody! I am the only one who has the other key and I won't ask for yours so keep it secret and try not to use the same password for any other room in the future.
Oh, ¡casi lo olvido! ¡No le des la clave de tu habitación a nadie! Yo soy el único quien tiene la otra llave y no voy a preguntar por la tuya a fin de mantenerlo en secreto y trata de no usar la misma contraseña para cualquier otra habitación en el futuro.

Oh, and Olga from the market place as well!
Oh, y Olga la del mercado también.

Oh, and give her some clothes, the poor girl, the ones she had were in even worse condition that the ones we have!


Oh, and give him some clothes, the poor guy, the ones he had were in even worse condition that the ones we have!


Oh, and there was this inscription on your raft. It represents the Warrior Guild of Esperia, the largest and biggest guild of the whole new world. Does that make you remember anything, anything at all?
Oh, había esta inscripción sobre tu balsa. Representa al Gremio Guerrero de Esperia, el gremio más grande y extendido de todo el nuevo mundo. ¿Te hace recordar algo, cualquier cosa?

Oh, but you didn't come here to talk about that, am I right?#0


Oh, but you didn't come here to talk about that, am I right?#1


Oh, he is not far away from here. Just take the road through the crocojungle north from here.


Oh, he's still alive!
¡Oh, él aún está vivo!

Oh, it's you.
Oh, eres tú.

Oh, it's you. I think it's better we do not talk for a while. They suspect something.


Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#0
Oh, ahora que recuerdo, habíamos encontrado que tenias dinero, tómalo.

Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#1
Oh, ahora que recuerdo, habíamos encontrado que tenias dinero, tómalo.

Oh, she's still alive!
¡Oh, ella aún está con vida!

Oh... Err, yes I did, or, well, good day to you!
Oh... Err, sí lo hice, o, bien, ¡Buen día para ti!

Oh... Well, I just started to trade... Thus my technique may not be the best.
Oh... Bueno, acabo de empezar a comerciar... Así que mi técnica puede no ser la mejor.

Oh... eating rattos. Sounds... ehm... Delicious, yes.
Oh... comer rattos. Suena... ehm... Delicioso, si.

Ok, I think he's waking up, go see him.
Esta bien, creo que él esta despertando, ve a verlo.

Ok, I think she's waking up, go see her.
Esta bien, creo que ella esta despertando, ve a verla.

Ok, I will leave him alone.
Ok. Lo dejaré solo.

Ok, be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...
Ok, se paciente un poco más. En los próximos días llegaremos al puerto de Artis...

Ok, done.
Esta bien, hecho.

Ok, ok. Come back if you change your mind.
Ok, ok. Vuelve cuando cambies de parecer.

Ok, see you then!
Ok ¡Nos vemos!

Okay, I'm ready to work!#0
¡De acuerdo, estoy lista para trabajar!

Okay, I'm ready to work!#1
¡De acuerdo, estoy listo para trabajar!

Okay, you can start!
¡Esta bien, puedes iniciar!

OldBook
OldBook

On one hand, ranged weapons are generally weaker than melee ones, but it obviously depends on the level of the weapon. On the other hand, you attack from a safer position.


Once the monster is dead, click on the dropped items to add them to your inventory. You can also use the 'Z' key to claim the drops.


Or else, if you really wish one, and if you feel capable, you can try killing tortugas or crocs if you're strong enough. I'm sure they could drop one or two @@s.


Orc Voice
Voz de Orc

Other than that, I don't know much about what else is going on, so directly asking the Cap'tain about it could be a good idea.
Además de eso, no sé mucho más acerca de lo que está pasando, sería una buena idea preguntarle directamente al Cap'itán. 

Other things are written but are not legible anymore.


Ouch...
Ouch...

Ouch... These boxes are so heavy!
Ouch... ¡Estas cajas son muy pesadas!

Our crew is like a family, and if you agree to help us, I would like to invite you to join our family!
Nuestra tripulación es como una familia, y si aceptas ayudarnos, ¡te invitaré a unirte a nuestra familia!

People started to steal from each other to survive. As cities grew, needs did too. Wars for fertile lands then rose.


Perfect!
¡Perfecto!

Peter
Peter

Piberries
Pibayas

Pink Blobime
Blobime Rosado

Piou Legs
Patas de Piou

Piou Slayer
Piou Asesino

Please don't tell people you saw me. I don't want to be decapitated or get thrown into the sea as food for sharks, at least not again!


Please don't touch these hats, they are for crew members only.
Por favor no toques estos gorros, son solo para los miembros de la tripulación.

Plushroom
Plushroom

Plushroom Box
Caja de Plushroom

Pumpkin Seeds


Q'Muller.


Raijin Voice
Voz de Raijin

RattosControl
RattosControl

Really? That's kind of you, I accept your help!


Right! Sailors are pretty quick with their job. They just take too much time bringing all the food back to the ship. Maybe you can help them.


RightBarrierCheck
RightBarrierCheck

RightDoorCheck
RightDoorCheck

Rrrr... Pchhhh...
Rrrr...Pchhhh...

Rules began to rise in order to have a peaceful society. This did not work well for long.


SO WHAT'S UP?! WHAT ARE YOU DOING?!


Sailors
Marineros

Sapartan


Sea Drops
Sea Drops

Sea water?! I will not help you with your evil plan!


Secondly, choose wisely which weapon is suited for you. Some people like to face their enemies closely with a heavy axe, some others prefer to attack from a distance with a bow for example.


See you aboard.
Nos vemos abordo.

See you!
¡Nos vemos!

See you.
Nos vemos.

Seems I've helped everyone here. I don't know what to do now!


Seems yummy! Let me taste it!
¡Parece delicioso! ¡Déjame probar!

Seriously?!
¡¿En serio?!

She is a good friend of mine... We wanted to marry a few weeks before her accident but...
Ella es una buena amiga mia... Nos queríamos casar unas semanas antes de su accidente...

She is the nurse and shipkeeper of this ship.


She said she will accept me when pious will have teeth. It's just a matter of time, you see?


She's on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She's the only girl in this crew, oh well, except for you now yeyeye!
Ella esté en el nivel superior, yeye no puedes equivocarte. Es la única mujer en la tripulación, además de ti ahora ¡Yeyeye!

She's on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She's the only girl in this crew.
Ella está en el nivel superior, yeye no puedes equivocarte. Es la única mujer en esta tripulación.

Shhht, don't say it that loud...


Silvio
Silvio

Silvio for example?
¿Silvio, por ejemplo?

Silvio starts to speak to his bottle, you leave the conversation.
Silvio comienza a hablar con su botella, dejas la conversación. 

So finally someone has came to visit me?


So it seems I have another stomach to fill. Those bastards have no respect for who feeds them every damn day!


So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe he comes from that guild, as that sign was on his raft.
Así que por eso hemos querido avisarle. Tal vez él viene de ese gremio, debido al símbolo que estaba en su balsa.

So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe she comes from that guild, as that sign was on her raft.
Así que por eso hemos querido avisarle. Tal vez ella viene de ese gremio, debido al símbolo que estaba en su balsa.

So, do you have anything for me today?
Así que, ¿tiene algo para mi hoy?

So, how do you feel? I see that Julia did a marvelous job! You look like you're in good health now.
Entonces , ¿Cómo te sientes? ¡Veo que Julia hizo un gran trabajo! Ahora parece que te encuentras mejor.

So, how is it going? Did you meet any other crew members yet?
Entonces, ¿cómo va? ¿Ya conociste a algún otro miembro de la tripulación?

So, what can I do for you?
Entonces, ¿qué puedo hacer por ti? 

So, what was I saying?
Así que... ¿qué estaba diciendo?

So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet me? Or is it because you've heard of my feats on Artis?


So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet my Julia? Or is it because you wanted to see the beautiful waitress' at Artis?


So, you finally woke up? We all thought you were in something like... You know, one of these long comas.


Some Bandanas and Sailor Hats are inside this box.
Algunas Bandanas y Sombreros de Marinero están dentro de esta caja.

Some food.
Algo de comida.

Some sailors are looking for goods we could trade in our next destination.
Algunos marineros están buscando mercancías que puedan comerciar en nuestro próximo destino. 

Sometimes, I wish somebody is sent here to help us.


Sorry but I have no time for this.
Lo siento, pero no tengo tiempo para esto.

Sorry! I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Arpan, but other sailors call me Magic Arpan because I know one or two yaing magic spells.
¡Lo siento! olvidé presentarme. Mi nombre es Arpan, pero los otros marineros me llaman Magic Arpan, porque sé una o dos cosas yaing hechizos mágicos.

Sorry, I am not in the mood for another fight with these rattos.
Lo siento, no estoy de humor para otra pelea con estos rattos.

Sorry, I don't need any help right now. Come back later.
Lo siento, no necesito ayuda ahora mismo. Vuelve después.

Sorry, but I can't tell you anything about that.
Lo siento, pero no puedo decirte nada acerca de eso.

Stupid yeye...
Estúpido yeye...

Suddenly, you hear a voice up in the sky.


Sure, but what can you give me in exchange?
Seguro, pero qué puede darme usted a cambio.

Sure, but what will I get in exchange?


Sure, cap'tain.
Claro, cap'tan

Sure, there is a reward for your task.
Por supuesto, hay una recompensa por tu trabajo.

Sure, why not?


Surely. Take this box full of @@s.
Seguro. Toma esta caja llena de @@s.

THAT'S A NICE NAME!
¡ESE ES UN BONITO NOMBRE!

Take a @@ and try opening it using something like a sharp knife! I doubt you'll succeed, you're weak my poor boy.


Take a @@ and try opening it using something like a sharp knife! I doubt you'll succeed, you're weak my poor girl.


Take a Bandana.
Toma una bandana.

Take these coins in exchange and be careful.
Toma estas monedas a cambio y sé cuidadoso.

Take this money as a reward for your nice words.


Take this money for your wise choice. But do not try it again. Water has been merciful with you once... Do not tempt fate once more!


Take your reward from the box next to my desk!


Tarlan


Task is done.
El trabajo esta hecho.

Tell him that everything went fine and that we're almost done with the food.


Thank you and be careful with that box. I have worked really hard to fill it!


Thank you for your help.
Gracias por tu ayuda.

Thank you for your tricks. I am going to try them now!


Thank you my friend.#0


Thank you my friend.#1


Thank you sir for you nice words. I am feeling better now.


Thank you so much! Here, have some of my berries.
¡Muchas gracias! Mira, toma algunas de mis bayas.

Thank you, I'll take them and put them on.


Thanks again for helping me. But these rattos are a permanent problem and your help is always welcome. The only problem is that I can give you a reward only one time.


Thanks for helping me!
¡Gracias por ayudarme!

Thanks for the help!


That's good to hear!
¡Es bueno escuchar eso!

That's perfect, yoiis.#0


That's perfect, yoiis.#1


The adventure begins!
¡La aventura comienza! 

The captain has locked the door, you should go see him.
El capitán cerro la puerta, deberías ir a verlo.

The captain is waiting for you! Hurry up.
¡El capitán te está esperando! Date prisa.

The captain wants:
El capitán quiere:

The door is locked.
La puerta está cerrada.

The elven from the library has tilted on me a while ago, as well as Enora from the Warrior Guild.


The end of the story got erased, probably because of the sea water. Some pages are still missing thus you don't know the author's name.


The fear to see her sleeping on this quiet and lonely bed is becoming more and more unbearable, I think that I won't get the bravery to see her this time...
El miedo a verla dormir en esta cama silenciosa y tranquila se está volviendo más y más insoportable, no creo ser lo suficientemente valiente para verla esta vez...

The first thing you should do is to evaluate your enemy.


The giant boogeyman!
¡El gigante boogeyman!

The great people of Aemil split up into three groups when they reached the coast.
El gran pueblo de Aemil se dividió en tres grupos al llegar a la costa. 

The hidden person doesn't answer.
La persona escondida no responde.

The old book seems to tell about the legend of Aemil. Would you like to read it?
El viejo libro parece contar la leyenda de Aemil. ¿Quieres leerlo?

The sailor chugs his beer.
El marinero resopla su cerveza.

The sailor turns his back to you.
El marinero te da la espalda.

The sailors take you aboard their ship.
Los marineros te llevan a bordo de su nave.

The usurper has been punished! This is a great day! Take this reward as a prize for your loyalty to the old commander!


Their leaders then came to the conclusion that an alliance was the only way they could survive.


Then I can give you some tips about fights.


Then it seems I have to apologize.


Then leave me alone.


There are few groups of these @@s all around this island. Just pick some and have a try.


There are rumors going around that they did some monstrous things and that they are hiding quite a lot from us.


There are some flying yellow plushes around you. They're called pious. Getting a roasted leg of one of them would be perfect.
Hay algunos peluches amarillos que vuelan a tu alrededor. Se llaman pious. Conseguir una pierna asada de uno de ellos sería perfecto.

There are some groups of these @@s all around this island. Just pick some and have a try.


There are some knifes on the table. Would you like to take one?


There are still some rattos left! Do you want to abort the quest?
¡Todavía quedan algunos rattos a la izquierda! ¿Quieres abortar la misión?

There is a paper with some rules written on it.
Allí hay un papel con algunas reglas escritas en él.

There is always something you can do here, like killing some tortugas or help Peter clean the ship from rattos.


There're 6 sailors who will need your help. They're all around the island.
Son 6 marineros que van a necesitar tu ayuda. Ellos están por toda la isla.

There's nothing to say, don't worry miss.
No hay nada que decir, no se preocupe señorita.

There's nothing to say, don't worry sir.
No hay nada que decir, no se preocupe señor.

Therefore, starvation stroke on the people of Aemil.


These boxes are way too heavy to be brought alone onto the ship.


These crocotrees are full of yaying @@, but they are so hard to hit...


These heavy boxes are killing me, I don't feel my arms anymore!


These yeye boxes are way too heavy to be carried alone onto the ship.


They are all around the island.


They are both valid and I need them. In the past, I probably did mistakes I now regret. I was wondering if you could investigate and... Sort out this situation.


They are so tasty when cooked together with some @@. Don't drop any of them!


They shouldn't be too far from each other.


This girl is lucky we found her before a shark did. I have no idea where she comes from. By the way, did you see the logo on her raft?
Esta chica tiene suerte que la encontráramos antes que un tiburón lo hiciera. No tengo idea de donde viene. A propósito, ¿has visto el logo sobre su balsa? 

This girl needs help, we need to rescue her!
La chica necesita ayuda, ¡debemos rescatarla!

This guy is lucky we found him before a shark did. I have no idea where he comes from. By the way, did you see the logo on his raft?
Este chico tiene suerte que lo encontráramos antes que un tiburón lo hiciera. No tengo idea de donde viene. A propósito, ¿has visto el logo sobre su balsa? 

This guy needs help, we need to rescue him!
¡Este hombre necesita ayuda, debemos rescatarlo!

This is a nice place... There are some nice chicks...
Es un bonito lugar... Allí hay algunas chicas agradables...

This is an @@, a light blue sea fruit. They're highly desired in the archipelago.


This is it, the end of the Second Beta Release of Evol Online!


This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on her.
Éste tipo de habla debería ser castigada, pero concuerdo contigo en que especialmente no me gustan, así que mantén un ojo sobre ella.

This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on him.
Ésta forma de hablar debería ser castigada, pero concuerdo contigo en que no me gustan especialmente, así que mantén un ojo sobre él.

This makes sense. Do you think we should inform the capt'n about it?
Tiene sentido. ¿Crees que deberíamos informarle al cap'tan acerca de esto?

This new continent, in fact an archipelago, was called Andorra.
Este nuevo continente, en realidad un archipiélago, fue llamado Andorra.

Tibbo


Tibbo went to the east-south of the island, others are gone to the north, and I think that Gulukan is not so far from here.
Tibbo se fue hacia el sudeste de la isla, los otros fueron al norte y creo que Gulukan no esta lejos de aquí. 

Tibbo.
Tibbo.

To open your inventory, use the F3 key or use your mouse to select it in the above menu in your client.


Tritan Voice
Voz de Tritan

True but now he seems pretty fine! Am I right?


True but now she seems pretty fine! Am I right?


Try to ask Max. He's an early riser.


UAHAHAHAAH! I am the cook of that bunch of donkeys and I can be rude with everyone from this bossy captain to that harpy-lady!


Uh? Hi! I'm sorry, but I have no time for chatting.


Uhm, bye.
Uhm, adiós. 

Understood, I will help you.
Entendido, te ayudaré.

Unfortunately, we still need help from you. This time it will be a delicate task, here onboard.


Use the key.
Usa la llave.

Usually I don't allow anyone to touch my boxes but...


Very nice, indeed!


WHAT DID YOU SAY?!
¡¿QUÉ DICES?!

Wait, it seems someone is blocking the door from the other side!
Espera, ¡parece que alguien esta empujando la puerta desde afuera!

Wait... Where are we going?
Espera... ¿A dónde vamos?

Wait? Why do you still have this dish with you?


Walk a bit, it'll be easy for you to catch one. Impale one of them for me please.
Camina un poco, será fácil para ti atrapar uno. Empala uno de ellos para mí, por favor.

Water, salt, spicy herbs and meat stuffed with my special surprise!


We are glad captain Nard has let you join us down here!#0


We are glad captain Nard has let you join us down here!#1


We hope you liked this introduction and to see you again in our future releases!#0


We hope you liked this introduction and to see you again in our future releases!#1


We made a stop at a little island, before making it to the port of Artis.
Hicimos un alto en una pequeña isla antes de llegar al puerto de Artis.

We need as many hands as possible to explore the island out there, and to get some new food.
Necesitamos muchas manos para ayudar a explorar la isla, y para conseguir comida nueva.

We need manpower on the island.
Necesitamos mano de obra en la isla. 

We need manpower on the island... Oh forgive me, women are also welcome, of course.
Necesitamos mano de obra en la isla... Oh perdóname, las mujeres también son bienvenidas, por supuesto. 

We should be there in a few days, once we arrive, I will warn the Warrior Guild about what happened, I'm sure they can help.
Deberíamos estar allí en pocos días, una vez que arribemos, avisare al Gremio Guerrero sobre lo que pasó, estoy segura que ellos pueden ayudar.   

We thought that you could help us understand this, all we know is that we found you back in the sea, adrift on your raft.
Nosotros pensábamos que tú podrías ayudarnos a entender esto. Todo lo que sabemos es que te encontramos tirado en el mar, a la deriva en tu balsa.

We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly destroyed them. It's why we gave you these clothes. They're not very nice, but that's all that we have for you.#0
Intentamos limpiarlas pero el mar destruyó la mayoría. Eso es el por qué te hemos dado esas ropas, que no son muy buenas, pero es todo lo que tenemos para ti.

We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly destroyed them. It's why we gave you these clothes. They're not very nice, but that's all that we have for you.#1
Intentamos limpiarlas pero el mar destruyó la mayoría. Eso es el por qué te hemos dado esas ropas, que no son muy buenas, pero es todo lo que tenemos para ti.

We usually dock around these small pieces of land because they provide us some of the best food of all the archipelago.


We usually don't stop in such splendid places, but the captain let us stay here while he writes down the location of this new island on his map!
¡Usualmente no nos detenemos en lugares tan esplendidos, pero el capitán nos permitió quedarnos aquí mientras anota la ubicación de esta nueva isla en su mapa! 

We will be yaying there in a few days, so we will drop you off there.
Estaremos yaying allí en unos dias, así que te dejaremos allí.

Well I'm working too! Don't you want me to carry one of these boxes back to Gugli?


Well done! Collect all the ingredients and then come back here. You will be rewarded once they understand who rules this ship!


Well done! The ship is now ready to sail again!


Well if you are whining like that all the time, then I think there is a reason behind their choice.


Well then... Take this one!
Bueno, entonces... ¡Toma esto!

Well, I was in fact looking for them. Where are they now?


Well, even though you have been rescued by us, it doesn't make you an expert sailor, am I right?#0


Well, even though you have been rescued by us, it doesn't make you an expert sailor, am I right?#1


Well, is there anything I can do here to help?


Well, it's not bad to finally feel something beneath my feet.


Well, thanks for the box. But... He was supposed to bring it back to me himself. I never asked him to give it to you!


Well... I don't think it is the best way to rule a ship. Think about it.


Well... I've only killed some little pious in the ship, that's all.


Well... No wait, I have something for you but you shouldn't eat it... I'm taking it back to the kitchen.


Well... Welcome aboard, cutie!#0
Bueno... ¡Bienvenida a bordo, linda!

Well... Welcome aboard, cutie!#1
Bueno... ¡Bienvenido a bordo, guapo!

What I sell comes from every corner of this archipelago.
Lo que vendo viene de todas partes de este archipiélago. 

What about Q'Muller? Where is he?


What am I supposed to say?
¿Qué se supone que diga?

What are you doing in my kitchen?! Get out, it's not a place for kids!


What are you guys saying ? It's a Yoiis!#0


What are you guys saying ? It's a Yoiis!#1


What are you looking at?
¿Qué estas mirando?

What are you looking for?
¿Qué estás buscando?

What are you talking about? What guild?
¿De qué estás hablando? ¿Cuál gremio?

What are your needs?


What danger?! Where?!
¡¿Qué peligro?! ¡¿Dónde?!

What did Gugli said about the box? Was it ok?


What did Gugli yayaid about the box? Was it ok?


What do you need?
¿Qué necesitas?

What do you think?
¿Qué piensas?

What do you want to do?
¿Qué quieres hacer?

What do you want today?
¿Qué quieres hoy?

What do you wish to do?
¿Qué deseas hacer?

What exactly is your real job?
¿Cuál es exactamente tu trabajo en realidad?

What happened to me?
¿Qué me ha pasado?

What is Artis?
¿Qué es Artis?

What kind of help?
¿Qué tipo de ayuda?

What should I do after taking these clothes?#0
¿Qué debería hacer después de tomar esa ropa?

What should I do after taking these clothes?#1
¿Qué debería hacer después de tomar esa ropa?

What yeye could I do for you today?
¿Qué yeye podría hacer por ti el día de hoy?

What's that food?


What's that?
¿Qué es eso?

What? It's not a good reward?
¿Qué? ¿No es una buena recompensa? 

What? This reward is too small!
¿Qué? ¡Esta recompensa es muy pequeña!

What? Why? They aren't sexier than me, why do you want to see them?
¿Qué? ¿Por qué? Ellos no son más atractivos que yo, ¿por qué quieres verlos?

What?! This tritan is the worse shirker I ever met!
¡¿Qué?! ¡Esta tritan es el peor haragán que he conocido!

When your inventory is open, you can equip an item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. You can do the same to unequip an item by clicking on 'Unequip'.


Where are my old clothes?
¿Dónde están mis ropas viejas?

Where can I find Julia?#0
¿Dónde puedo encontrar a Julia?

Where can I find Julia?#1
¿Dónde puedo encontrar a Julia?

Where can I find some food?
¿Dónde puedo encontrar algo de comida?

Where can I find your crew?
¿Dónde puedo encontrar a tu tripulación?

Where is the damn salt?! Give me the salt, I know you have it!


Which of your weapons do you want to use in order to cut this @@?
¿Cual de tus armas quieres usar para cortar esto @@?

While Jalad and Ale like to work together, as they use to do on the ship, last time I've seen them, they were near the big lake, north from here.


Who are yeye looking for?


Who are you looking for?


Who are you?
¿Quién eres tú?

Who is she?
¿Quién es ella?

Who of them two has the 'good' on his side?


Who should I search for?
¿A quién debo buscar?

Who's this Julia?
¿Quién es Julia?

Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#0
¿Por qué Francesa? ¡Es una Rusa!

Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#1
¿Por qué Francés? ¡Es un ruso!

Why are you hiding?
¿Por qué estás escondido?

Why don't you come down to talk?
¿Por qué no bajas aquí y hablamos?

Why don't you come out?
¿Por qué no vienes afuera?

Why not, I need to train anyway.
Por qué no. De todos modos necesito entrenar.

Why not, I've got plenty of free time.
Por qué no. tengo mucho tiempo libre.

Why not, but who are you, and what kind of help do you need?


Why?
¿Por qué?

Why? And who should you bring it back to?


Wow, it seems everyone knows my name!
¡Wow, parece que todo el mundo sabe mi nombre!

Yaya, you should go see her! She'll be happy to see you.#0
YAYA, deberías ir a verla! Ella va a estar feliz de verte.

Yaya, you should go see her! She'll be happy to see you.#1
YAYA, deberías ir a verla! Ella va a estar feliz de verte.

Yayayaya, it's the first time someone is dressed worse then us!
¡Yayayaya, es la primera vez que alguien se viste peor que nosotros!

Yeah you're all like *hic* that in Esperia, but you won't get me! *burp*


Yeah, but I would like to make sure I get a reward.
Sí, pero me gustaría asegurarme de obtener una recompensa.

Yeah, but what reward will I get?
Sí, pero ¿qué recompensa obtendré?

Yeah, well what's the difference?


Yeah, yeah, of course you don't...


Yes he did.
Sí, lo hizo.

Yes!
¡Si!

Yes, Arpan gave me these clothes.
Sí, Arpan me dio esta ropa.

Yes, I do.
Sí, así es.

Yes, I feel strong enough for dangerous combats!


Yes, indeed. I prefer to explore places I have never been to, before doing anything else.


Yes, it is true! You are not able at all. Nard has been waiting for the food for too long already. Hurry up, you lazy sailors!


Yes, why not.
Sí, por qué no.

Yes.
Sí.

Yeye @@!
¡Yeye @@!

Yeye ask too much but do too less. Take this box and stop talking.


Yeye be careful with wild animal's food, some of them are yeyery dangerous, especially the crocs.


Yeye gave my box to Gugli? Nice, nice yeye!
¿Yeye le diste mi caja a Gugli? ¡Bien, bien yeye!

Yeye got good eyes and seem to have fully recovered from your injuries...


Yeye seen this yoiis at the bottom of the island, check around.


Yeye seen this yoiis at the top of the island.


Yeye still have my box? Stare less and work more. Go give it to Gugli!


Yeye sure? I'll yaye some more food in the next box then.#0


Yeye sure? I'll yaye some more food in the next box then.#1


Yeye's brain is probably still full of sea water if yeye can't see the beauty of this place.
El cerebro de Yeye probablemente aún esté lleno de agua de mar si no puede ver la belleza de este lugar.

Yeye, it's the logo of the Warrior Guild of Esperia! I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#0


Yeye, it's the logo of the Warrior Guild of Esperia! I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#1


Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#0
Yeye, eres muy afortunada de estar con vida. ¿estás en forma para caminar? ¿Recuerdas lo que ha pasado?

Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#1
Yeye, eres muy afortunado de estar con vida. ¿estás en forma para caminar? ¿Recuerdas lo que ha pasado?

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#0
Yeye, ¡aún no has obtenido tus ropas!

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#1
Yeye, ¡aún no has obtenido tus ropas!

Yeye.
Yeye.

You already took a Bandana, please put this one back in the box.
Ya tomaste una Bandana, vuelve a poner esa en la caja, por favor.

You are full of wine, my friend...
Usted está lleno de vino, mi amigo...

You are now officially part of my crew! Thanks again for your help.


You are now part of the crew. Thanks again for your help.
Eres parte de la tripulación. Gracias de nuevo por tu ayuda.

You are now part of the crew... At least for us down here!


You are on a raft, adrift in the sea.
Estás en una balsa, a la deriva en el mar.

You can also attack an enemy from your keyboard pressing the 'A' key to select it, and the 'Ctrl' key to attack it, this of course works if you didn't change your keyboard keys yet.
También puedes atacar un enemigo desde tu teclado presionando la tecla 'A' para seleccionarlo, y 'Ctrl' para atacarlo. Por supuesto, esto es si no has cambiado las configuraciones del teclado aún.

You can attack a monster by clicking directly on it. Once selected, you may notice a bar near your target showing you how much health it has left.


You can attack a monster by clicking on it or from your keyboard you can press the 'A' key to select the monster followed by 'Ctrl' to attack it.


You can easily see if a monster is easy to kill or just impossible to defeat. Do not try against creatures that are way more powerful than you... You'd be risking your life for nothing.


You can find them in the ocean, near corals and other sea beings. But the sea is too heavy today, you shouldn't try swimming for now.


You can now stay with your new friends and enjoy the warm sand of this little island.


You can spot Q'Muller on a cliff on the west busy collecting @@s.


You can try talking with some other sailors to get some information about that.
Puedes intentar hablar con los otros marineros para obtener alguna información acerca de eso.

You can yaye some @@s by hitting these crocotrees.
Puedes yaye algunos @@s golpeando estos árboles de crocos.

You can't go there!
¡No puedes ir allá!

You could meet some of the other sailors this way, and... Getting this hat of course, will be a sign of you becoming part of our crew.
Puedes conocer a los demás marineros de esta manera, y...  obteniendo este gorro por supuesto, que será un signo de que te estas uniendo a la tripulación.

You could start talking to Gugli. He always has tasks for people willing to help


You don't expect me to eat that, do you? Give me something else!


You have an awful amnesia.
Tienes una amnesia terrible.

You have been so nice to me. So please, take one.#0


You have been so nice to me. So please, take one.#1


You have to know that there was a time during which I was the unopposed lieutenant of this crew. Then one day one of the damn sailor brought here that 'nice' lady.


You hear a screaming sound, must be the creaking of the wood door...


You hit too hard with your fist, you destroyed your @@.


You honor me beauty, but I'm already taken by Julia!
¡Me honras, bella, pero ya fui conquistado por Julia!

You know, yeyes love to chat while working.
Tú sabes, yeyes ama charlar mientras está trabajando.

You like them, don't you? Just speak with Peter then. He is on the second deck of the ship. He will send you to downstairs where you will find our furry meal!


You like these hats, right?
¿Te gustan estos gorros verdad?

You mentioned the quality of your wine.


You need to cross the crocojungle heading north.


You open the book, but it looks like the sea water and time damaged it severely. Some pages are not readable anymore. Some others are simply missing.


You open the treasure chest.
Abres el cofre del tesoro.

You opened the @@ in two parts, but you crushed one of them.


You perfectly cut your @@ into two edible parts.


You realize you can't remember anything.
Te das cuenta de que no puedes recordar nada.

You receive 10 GP!


You receive 200 GP!


You receive 25 GP!


You receive 40 GP!


You receive 50 GP!


You receive 60 GP!


You see these pious around us?


You see? I'm working here!
¿Ves? ¡Estoy trabajando aquí!

You should come back when you'll have some free space.


You should go and get some sleep.
Usted debería ir y dormir un poco.

You should go see him. He is one of the most experienced sailors we have.


You should go see them.
Deberías ir a verles.

You should inform Nard about the loading progress of the food on to the boat. He will be pleased to hear that good news!


You should look at them once we arrive at the port, they are worth it, hehe...
Tienes que buscarlas una vez que lleguemos al puerto. Valen la pena, jeje...

You should talk to Magic Arpan first.


You should walk to the north to find him.
Debes caminar hacia el norte para encontrarlo.

You should walk to the north.
Debes caminar hacia el norte.

You shouldn't believe all of the stories drunk sailors tell you.


You still got a few days before we arrive at the port, maybe you can learn something from them?
Todavía tienes unos días antes de que lleguemos al puerto. ¿Tal vez puedas aprender algo de ellos?

You still haven't completed your tasks.


You still need to give me boxes from: 


You stupid, he's english, look at the shape of his head.
Estúpido, él es inglés, mira la forma de su cabeza.

You stupid, she's english, look at the shape of her head.
Estúpido, ella es inglesa, mira la forma de su cabeza.

You take the clothes from the chest.
Tomas la ropa del cofre.

You told me that you 'were' important.
Me decías que 'eras' importante.

You tried to get rid of me, eeh? But surprise! I'm still here... *hic* Or there...
Intentaste deshacerte de mi, ¿eeh? ¡Pero sorpresa! Todavía estoy aquí... *hic* O allí.

You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#0
Estabas en mala forma, deberías de estar contenta de que te hayamos encontrado antes de que el mar te matara.

You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#1
Estabas en mala forma, deberías de estar contento de que te hayamos encontrado antes de que el mar te matara.

You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#0
Estuviste yaying dormir por bastante tiempo allí, nuestra portera, Julia, estuvo aquí contigo, ella hizo lo mejor para curar tus heridas.

You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#1
Estuviste yaying dormir por bastante tiempo allí, nuestra portera, Julia, estuvo aquí contigo, ella hizo lo mejor para curar tus heridas.

You will find a wooden sign near a crossroad. He is a few steps on the left.


You will see, citizens are polite and you can still ask for help in the Warrior Guild. They can help find a job for you or maybe help you find out what happened to you out at sea!
Ya lo verás, los ciudadanos son educados y puedes  pedir ayuda en el Gremio Guerrero. ¡Ellos te ayudarán a encontrar un trabajo o a averiguar que te sucedió en el mar!

You yoiis should walk to the north.
Debes yoiis caminar hacia el norte.

You're like the rest of this filthy crew, I can't trust you!


You're like the rest of this filthy crew. Your name is already on the traitors list.#0


You're like the rest of this filthy crew. Your name is already on the traitors list.#1


You're on a ship, we're on our way to the commercial capital of Artis.
Estás a bordo de un barco, vamos rumbo a la capital comercial de Artis.

You're on our ship, we made port to a little island and we're actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#0
Tu estás en nuestro barco, atracamos en el puerto de esta pequeña isla y actualmente estamos yeyendeando nuestro largo viaje mercante hacia la ciudad de Artis.

You're on our ship, we made port to a little island and we're actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#1
Tu estás en nuestro barco, atracamos en el puerto de esta pequeña isla y actualmente estamos yeyendeando nuestro largo viaje mercante hacia la ciudad de Artis.

You're one of us now, that's great! I was sure that you were a good man when I first saw you!
¡Eres uno de nosotros ahora, eso es genial! ¡Estaba seguro que eras un bueno hombre cuando te vi por primera vez!

You're one of us now, that's great! I was sure that you were a kind lady when I first saw you!
¡Eres una de nosotros ahora, eso es genial! ¡Estaba seguro que eras una buena joven cuando te vi por primera vez!

You're right, it's about Julia.
Estás en lo correcto, es acerca de Julia.

You're right, it's about you.
Estás en lo correcto, es acerca de ti.

You're welcome. If you can't remember something, just come back here!
De nada. ¡Si no puedes recordar algo, sólo vuelve aquí!

You... You eat... rattos? I think you're just a fool.
¿Tu...Tu comes... rattos? Pienso que eres un tonto. 

You? Here?
¿Tú? ¿Aquí?

Your hands are too weak, you did not succeed in opening this @@.


Your position has been saved.
Tu posición fue guardada.

Zzzzzzzzzz
Zzzzzzzzzz

a ground!


a quiet place,
un lugar tranquilo,

