Copyright (C) 2010-2012  Evol Online
'That', as you call it, is a @@. There're plenty on this island!


*Uff*, *Argh*, why don't you give me some help?


*hic*


*uff*... And another box of @@s for our starving colleagues is ready.


- 2 @@


.


... And 1 @@.


1. Do not bot. This means you are not allowed to use any automation programs or use keyboard tricks. Any away from keyboard activity will be considered as botting except standing still.


2. Do not spam. This also concerns trade spam.


3. Do not multi box. This means you cannot have more than one active character logged in at a time. You are not allowed to use more than one active client at a time to attack in groups.


4. Do not trash talk, beg or use rude language in your character name or in the chat, except for role play purposes.


5. Do not speak any other language than English in public areas. You are free to speak any language you want in private chats or when alone with friends.


5. Do not speak any other language than English in public. You are free to speak any language you want in private chats or when alone with friends.


6. Follow the social convention listed on the RFC1855 article.


@@ is helping me.
@@ es mi an 't 'elp'n.

A few moments ago, I heard your conversation with Darlin.


A great city, now the capital of these islands, called Esperia, rose on the single island, Aurora, where everyone lived.


A sunny and hot day,


ANYWAY, MAYBE WHEN YOU ARE LOOKING FOR FOOD WITH GUGLI YOU WILL HAVE THE TIME TO LOOK AT THIS!


Aboard stand sailors trying to talk to you.


About this Esperia's Guild, I'm not sure about them, frankly.


Acorn


Actually Gugli asked me if I could help you bringing him some of your boxes.


Actually, I have an in-depth knowledge of this type of life.


Aemil is a magnificent world unknown to us all.


Ah... Gugli... He's too young to understand our conversation


Ale.


AligeTrigger
AligeTrigger

All that I had to eat were these berries... Berries... Berries...
Oal da'k ik t' et'n a, weure die bess'n... Bess'n... Bess'n...

All your... Fresh ingredients are ready to be cooked.


Alright! Yoyone more box and it'll be good.


Alright, I'm going to his room, keep an eye on her, we still don't know if she's an ally or an enemy...


Alright, I'm going to his room, keep an eye on him, we still don't know if he's an ally or an enemy...


Alright... Bye.


Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In a bad shape. Go check the chest near your bed, there are some other ones inside.#0


Also, we took your yayed clothes, as they were... Yeyeye... In a bad shape. Go check the chest near your bed, there are some other ones inside.#1


An unexpected help is always welcome!


And now I want to see you run!


And now I'm a sailor, as you can see!


And please, no berries.


And what kind of help do you need?
En wa veur 'ulpe è j' gie nodig?

And you, how are you doing?


And you? How's it going on your side?


And you? How's it yaying on your side?


Anyway I am glad I can give you some of these @@s.


Anyway, if you ever feel interested, just check my bag!


Aquada


Aquada Box


Are you blind? Do you really think these boxes are light and soft as a piou's feather?!


Are you here to explore the island?


Are you ok?
Zei j' gie ok?

AreaNPC
AreaNPC

AreaTop
AreaTop

Arrr, don't give me more berries! I don't want them, stupid berries, stupid... Stupid... Stupid!


Artis of course!


As they sailed on Oceania, great waters of Aemil, one of the groups found a land.


As you may know, we are long distance travelers and our whole crew needs to store enough food to survive. You don't know how dangerous the sea life can be.


As you open your eyes, you see a large ship before you.


Ask sailors around here they shouldn't be so far away.


Astapolos.


At the moment, our crew is busy collecting @@s, @@s and @@s.


At this time, we were selling crab food on our old mushroom island.


Ayouyouch! My head...


BUT I CAN'T, I NEED TO KEEP AN EYE ON THE SEA, TO WARN THE CREW IF THERE HAPPENS TO BE SOME PIRATES AROUND!


Bag


Bare Hands


Be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...


Before...


Bread
Brood

Break the door.


Bring this box to Gugli. He will be extremely happy!


But I can't tell you anything about it, I'm sorry.


But I need to go, see you!


But I swear that one day... Oh... My tasty revenge! Hhm, actually I wonder if... Maybe...


But for now, you can relax on the ship, or visit the island we're docked at! Its a small island, but a good place to get some exercise and stretch your legs.


But let's talk about this island. We're docking here to find some fine quality goods.


But most important, she is the one who took care of you when you were unconscious.#0


But most important, she is the one who took care of you when you were unconscious.#1


But who am I?
Moa wie benne 'k ik?

But you won't *hic* me this time...


But... If he has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about him.


But... If she has amnesia like Julia said... We don't need to worry about her.


Bye!


CAN YOU HEAR ME?!


Can I read these rules again?


Can you bring me something which isn't a vegetable?
Kun dje mi entwa bring'n da gen groente es?

Can't you see I'm working?!


Captain Nard
Skipper Nard

Captain Nard is in the room to your right.


Certain items perform different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor, and some can be sold for gold.


Cheese
Koas

Click on the NPCs around you to continue the introduction.
Klikt ip de NPC's rond gie vo de rest van d' introductie.

Congrats!


Congratulations!


Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#0
Kun dje mi zegg'n wa da ui moedertoal ès? Een Zeeman è gezei da' j' en Rus zit, moar 'n anderen zei da'j' en Fransen zit... 'k weet et ni zo goe. Ik ga ui ton registreren ip de boarding liste van 't skip.

Could I ask you what your native language is? A sailor told me you're russian, but another one told me you're french... I'm a bit lost. I will register you on the ship boarding list just after that.#1
Kun dje mi zegg'n wa da ui moedertoal ès? Een Zeeman è gezei da' j' en Russische zit, moar 'n anderen zei da'j' en Franse zit... 'k weet et ni zo goe. Ik ga ui ton registreren ip de boarding liste van 't skip.

Could you explain to me where I am?
Kun dje mi utlegg'n woar da'k ik benne?

Could you help me please? 
Kun dje mi 'elp'n astemblief?  

Could you tell me where I am?#0
Kun dje gie mi vertell'n woar da'k ik benne?

Could you tell me where I am?#1
Kun dje gie mi vertell'n woar da'k ik benne?

Couwan gave me this box, it is for you.


Couwan hands you a box full of fish.


Croc Claw


Croconut


Croconut Box


DID YOU FIND OUT WHAT THE LIGHT WAS?!


DO YOU FEEL BETTER?!


Damn @@.


Damn you! You better not tell anyone that you've seen me!#0
Godverdomme! Ge kun't moar beter niemand vertel'n da j' mi ei gezien!

Damn you! You better not tell anyone that you've seen me!#1
Godverdomme! Ge kun't moar beter niemand vertel'n da j' mi ei gezien!

Dan ends the conversation and resumes to write his letter.


Dan keeps silent since your last question.


Did you say reward? I want it!
é j' gie gezei belonginge? Da moe'k ik én!

Do not give the password of your room to anybody! Keep it secret and try not to use the same one in any other room in the future. - Julia


Do you have any other questions for me?


Do you have anything for me today?
È j' entwadde veur ik vandoage?

Do you think this is fair? They have sent me down here alone, far away from everyone.


Do you want me to go see her instead of you?


Do you want to cut this @@?


Do you want to try?


Does somebody know a good place to hang out in Esperia? - M. Arpan


Don't do theee... *hic* with me eh!


Don't try to poison me! I know what that does!


Done. Here, take it! Now here is the plan. Go talk with her and offer our beautiful lady a bite of her arrogance!


DoorUpwards
DoorUpwards

Duty calls me, *hic*, see you later dude.


Duty calls me, *hic*, see you later honey.


Each of the groups was ordered to sail in a different direction to find a new, suitable land where to live.


Ehm... He was really upset for some past stories.


Elmo
Elmo

Elmo and Gugli told me that you did all of the tasks outside, congrats!


Elmo reported me about some frictions between my old and new lieutenants. You probably already met Julia and Gado the Chef.


Elmo told me what Nard said, congrats!


Elmo told me you are now considered as one of us on the island. And I do appreciate the efforts you did down there.


Elven Voice


Err, seriously, I just wanted to get to Artis, and I don't have the money to pay for the ferry!


Even though they did not hear anything about the other groups, they decided to start a new life on this land, full of harmful animals.


Exactly. Even our task is ridiculous. Why should we collect food down here if we have plenty of those tasty and soft rattos inside our ship, waiting just to be hunted and cooked?


Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#0
Ei? Weet je gi wie da'k ik benne?

Excuse me? Do you know who I am?#1
Ei? Weet je gi wie da'k ik benne?

FINE, BYE!


Fine... I was just going to give you some help...


Following these lines are some other writings on this paper.


Fool! Just come back here when you'll be done with our little... 'Secret mission'.


From what I know, Gugli, my brother, needs the help of as many people as possible to collect all of the new things found on the island.


Fungus


GOOD!


Gado! That coward lives in the past, I will ask Nard to punish him, again!


Ggrmm... Grmmmm...


Give me a kiss before you say goodbye!


Go away.


Good job!
Goe gedoan!

Good luck! And don't forget to visit Peter and our little friends when you will be back onboard!


Good to know.


Good, good! 
Goe, goe!  

Great to see you! What can I do for you today?


Great!


Great, what food do you have for me today?#0


Great, what food do you have for me today?#1


Greetings traveler.#0


Greetings traveler.#1


Gugli


Gugli asked me to help you carrying one of these boxes you are filling.


Gugli sent me down here to help you.


Gugli? Oh I see. Yes, he is pretty used to shout orders to everybody down here.


GugliBarrierCheck


Gulukan.


HE IS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SHIP, DOWN THE STAIRS. YOU CAN'T MISS HIM!


HEY


HEY @@!


HEY! HEY YOU!


HEY, WHAT'S YOUR NAME?!


Harpy-lady?


Have you collected all the ingredients for my recipe? The special one too?


Have you seen anything dangerous?


He needs more food.


He told me nothing about that.
Ie è mi doa niks over gezeid.

He's funny, it's not a problem.


Hear me *hic* well, what ever, whatididever you will *hic* said ab... uhm... out what?! You saw there, the Guild of Esperia won't let it get public.


Hehe!


Hehe, no. But I'm sure a boy like you would like to meet a gentleman like me.


Hehe, no. But I'm sure a lady like you would love to meet a charmer like me!


Hehe, sometimes he gets his head in the clouds, You should go ask him about that.
Hehe, soms zit ie me zinne kop in the wolk'n. Ge zoe 't em beter goan vroagen.

Hehe... Ok, I'm going to inform the captain up there.


Hehehe, he is a bit nervous, please forgive him, it is not everyday we have a new member in the crew!


Hel... What?! Wait!


Hello dear!#0


Hello dear!#1


Hello yeye.


Hello.


Hello... Do I know you?


Here they are.


Here's your reward!
Ier es ui beloninge!

Hey


Hey @@!


Hey Frenchy!#0
Hey Frenchy!

Hey Frenchy!#1
Hey Frenchy!

Hey Silvio, it's your turn to carry the package, go!


Hey you!


Hey you! Can you hear us? Are you okay?


Hey you, sorry for leaving your room so quickly, I needed to... speak with the captain about... The reserve. You know, now that we got a new mouth to feed, we need to check what we have.


Hey!


Hey! Be careful. You can't stay in this basement for so long, you're going to get sick. Come outside and take a break, maybe you can try again later.


Hey, could yeye please take my box of fish to Gugli?


Hey, don't worry about him, it's one of the first days in a long time that we can just chill out.


Hey, girl!
Ei, meiske!

Hey, how do you know my name?


Hey, man!
Ei, manneke!

Hey, psst! You're not a sailor, right?
Ei, psst! Ge zit toch gene zeeman é?

Hey.


Hi @@, I heard the captain sent you down here, uh?#0


Hi @@, I heard the captain sent you down here, uh?#1


Hi @@.


Hi, nice to see you!


Hidden Person


Hmm... Let's see, take this one.


Hmmm, hm... *cough*, *cough*, *burp*, *cough*. What... What is that?!... *cough*, *burp*... Damn Gado... *cough*


How about I ask you to help the crew? It would mean that you're one of us and that you will be able to get one of these hats.


How are things going?


How are you doing, cutie?


How are you doing, dude?


How are you feeling, now that you walk on steady land? Better?


How is *hic* it possible?


How rude! What is the reason behind your malice?


However, drought came with summers while winters became colder than ever.


However...


Hurry, hurry! We need to check his teeth!


I ALSO AVOID THE DANGEROUS ANIMALS!


I AM DOING FINE!


I DO NOT UNDERSTAND!


I SAID, SEE YOU LATER!


I WAS HERE WHEN THEY RESCUED YOU!


I WOULD LOVE TO!


I am not worried about rewards. I just want to help.
Beloning'n kan mi ni skèl'n. 'k wille 'k ik geweun 'elp'n.

I am sure I can run with one of them on my shoulder.


I am sure you know her. Nice dress, large smile and a constant flux of orders and rules. Julia they call her!


I am surprised someone has been sent here for help. It is quite... unusual.


I am, who are you?#0


I am, who are you?#1


I beg you, please, pleeeease...
'k smeek et ui, astemblieft, astemblieeeeft...

I can't really help you find them since I've been checking the... Hmm... Landscape, since morning...


I can't remember anything.#0
'k weete niks mer.

I can't remember anything.#1
'k weete niks mer.

I do feel better!


I do not want to point my finger on someone. I just put my trust in you. I am sure you will be able to judge and solve this annoying problem.


I don't have anything good for you today.
'k ei niks goe vo gie vandoage.

I don't know what to say...


I don't need your help right now, come back later.
'k è ui 'ulpe nie nodig, kjère loater ne kjè were.

I don't see anything else than... water?


I don't think that we are in a good place to talk about this...


I don't want this, give me something else.
Da moe'k nie ène, geef mi entwa d' anders.

I don't want to change my language, sorry.
'k wille min toale nie verander'n, sorry.

I feel ok.#0
'k voele mi goe.

I feel ok.#1
'k voele mi goe.

I forgot where it was...


I give you this key, it opens any doors on this ship.


I guess so... I will leave you alone.


I have brought you a tasty present for your delicate mouth.


I have collected all the boxes you needed.


I have some clothes and other things for you at a fine price!


I hope that answers your question.


I hope you don't mind that we used your raft to build this ramp.


I just realized I needed delicious ingredients to prepare a... A special recipe.


I know that you are just starting to feel better, but I'd like to give you a special task.


I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#0
'k è en foute gemakt, 'k wille min toale verander'n.

I made a mistake, I would like to change my language.#1
'k è en foute gemakt, 'k wille min toale verander'n.

I need help for clean the edge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help.#0


I need help for clean the edge of the ship, but you aren't strong enough to help.#1


I need somebody who can clean the bottom of the ship of these rattos. Can you help me?


I need to go, sorry.


I only need 2 @@, 1 @@, 1 @@ and...


I only remember I was rescued by you.#0
'k weet allene nog da'j' mi gered eit.

I only remember I was rescued by you.#1
'k weet allene nog da'j' mi gered eit.

I said... WHY DON'T YOU COME DOWN TO TALK?


I see it's not easy to get rid of these rattos. Do you want to try again?


I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if he is a part of the Warrior Guild, then he is also our ally.
Azo, woarschuw d' andere zeeman'n 'ierover. Moar as 't ie van de Soldoat'n Guild ès, ton ès ie ook oez'n moat.

I see, warn the other sailors about this. But if she is a part of the Warrior Guild, then she is also our ally.
Azo, woarschuw d' andere zeeman'n 'ierover. Moar as ze van de Soldoat'n Guild ès, ton ès ze ook oez'n moat.

I speak Dutch.


I speak English.


I speak Flemish.


I speak French.


I speak German.


I speak Italian.


I speak Polish.


I speak Portuguese.


I speak Russian.


I speak Spanish.


I swear, I do not eat so much.


I think I should report you to the crew members.
'k peize da'k u beter zoe verklikk'n an d' andere zeeman'n.

I think I'm done with that now. Do you have any questions?


I think that I'm soon done since I'll soon have a box full of @@s!


I think that I'm still a bit sick.


I think that my wine has a great quality! I'm on my second bottle and I already... What were we talking about again?


I think that yeye's soon be done. Yeye'll soon have a full box of @@s!


I was going to ask you if you would need any help.


I will care of the other ones don't worry.


I will give you @@GP.


I will not tell you all the details, but after a month, she was ruling the ship and I was sent down here, cooking for those traitors!


I will surely visit him. Do you need any help with your boxes?


I will yaying do.
'k goa da yayadoene.

I will.
'k goa da doen.

I wonder too...
'k vroage 't mi oak af...

I'M CALLED, @@!


I'd like to catch one of them, but they are flying away when I try.
'k zoe gèren een pakk'n, moa ze vlieg'n weg a 'k 't probeer.

I'll give her everything she needs, don't worry.


I'll give him everything he needs, don't worry.


I'll look at it.


I'll share my berries with you if you help me.


I'm a bit sick...#0


I'm a bit sick...#1


I'm glad to see you're okay.#0


I'm glad to see you're okay.#1


I'm looking for Gugli, where is he?


I'm losing my mind, I need something else to eat!
'k ben ier zot an 't word'n, 'k moe iet anders ein vo 't et'n!

I'm not suited for this kind of work!


I'm not that numb eeh *hic* what did ever you disco... *hic* ...vered there, the warrior guild won't get me!


I'm sorry but I have no time to chat with you.


I'm sorry for your situation. They should alternate you with another sailor sometime.


I'm sorry, I don't have time right now.


I'm still busy, I need to find the other sailors.


I'm still in a coma, but my ghost is haunting you!


I'm sure that you've got some questions for me, feel free to ask them, but firstly I need to tell you the rules of proper social conduct on board.


I'm the cook's assistant of the ship. I help Gado, La Johanne's Chef, in his daily work.


I've seen him at the bottom of the island, check around.


I've seen him at the bottom of the island, have a look around.


I've seen him at the top of the island.


I've seen him on the bottom of the island, ask Jalad for more information.


IF YOU FIND SOMETHING, THEN IT'S GREAT!


IT'S OK, CREW TASKS ARE MUCH MORE IMPORTANT THAN CURIOSITY!


If I saw *hic* who you were... *hic* Would not have helped you! 


If you feel bored or like turning in circles, you may want to talk with the other sailors around here to get some tasks.


If you want to read this page again, there is a copy up on the left wall.


If you would like to open your inventory use the F3 key or use your mouse to select it in the above menu in your client.


If you're looking for us there, mostly all of us will be at Pedro's restaurant and in the Inn for Silvio's case...


In fact, I came here to work on my task.


In this cave, you see, I have a lot of fun.


Indeed! Goodbye.


Indeed, I am not.#0


Indeed, I am not.#1


Interested?


Interesting... I'll leave you to your task then!


Is there a reward?


It is nice to see that you woke up fine at the same time. Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#0


It is nice to see that you woke up fine at the same time. Elmo came here to tell me this good news!#1


It seems that we're close to an island, we should take a look at the upper level.


It seems that you need a key to open this door.


It seems you still have some work to do.


It was something like a long nap.


It would be good for you to do some exercise, the ship isn't big enough for that.


It's a commercial port of Andorra, it's weird that you don't know about it since it is one of the most famous cities throughout the world. But hey, returning to the topic, I'm hungry!


It's a kind of mushroom. We call it like that because of it's taste, just like a marshmallow. It also has this name because of it's appearance, it looks like a plush!


It's a kind of mushroom. We call it like that because of it's taste, just like a marshmallow. It also has this name because of it's appearance. It looks like a plush!


It's alright! Just one more box and it'll be ok.


It's good, good... I have a friend who is still in a coma, but I can't be with her without working...


It's ok.


It's so hard to find the motivation...


It's true!


It's where every merchant ship end their road and we won't be an exception.


Items have different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor, and some can be sold for gold.


Items perform different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor and some can be sold for gold.#0


Items perform different effects. Some will heal you, some you may use as weapons or armor and some can be sold for gold.#1


Its inhabitants did not know any kind of horror and in peace they lived as the earth gave them everything they needed to live.


Jalad.


Julia
Julia

Julia is on the upper level of the ship, use the arrow keys to walk to the stairs or click on the stairs at the top right of your screen.


Just hit the trunk, and it will yeye a @@.


Just leave me alone.


Knife


Lean for example?


LeftBarrierCheck
LeftBarrierCheck

LeftDoorCheck
LeftDoorCheck

Let me introduce myself, I am Nard, captain of this ship.


Let me see... Crispy legs, disgusting liquids... Let's start!


Lettuce
Saloa

Look how splendid this landscape is!


Look, here he is!


Look, there he is!


M... Maybe?


MAYBE YOU CAN LOOK AT THIS?!


Magic Arpan
Magisch'n Arpan

Max and Sapartan for example?


May this be a lesson for you.


Maybe he abused too much his bottle today to celebrate that!


Maybe he was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior guild!
Meskien was 't ie een van die die vorige moand verdwen'n zin? Die yoiis van Esperia die 'n geheime missie èn gekreg'n van de soldoat'n guild!

Maybe she was one of those who got lost last month? The yoiis from Esperia that got a secret quest from the Warrior guild!
Meskien was z' een van die die vorige moand verdwen'n zin? Die yoiis van Esperia die 'n geheime missie èn gekreg'n van de soldoat'n guild!

Maybe you can come down to talk?


My beauty, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!


My friend, I was not always a sailor, you know, I was once an important individual!


My name is Alige, I've been hiding here for weeks.


My name is Astapolos. Q'Muller and I joined Nard's crew a few years ago when it was just a little merchant ship.


My name is Julia, it is me who took care of you after we found you in the sea.


NOTHING ELSE OTHER THAN SHARKS AND AN ODD LIGHT!


Nard
Nard

Nard looks surprised and stops you.


Narrator
Narrator

New technologies helped the slaughter instead of establishing peace. At some point, two different rivals were formed.


No and *hic*... No, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hic* guild!#0


No and *hic*... No, you and you and your... *burp* stupi*hic* guild!#1


No problem, I can help you anyway.
't é goe, 'k kan ui toch 'elp'n.

No problem, do you have any other questions for me?


No!


No, I can't, I just wanted to travel across the seas for fun.
Nenk, 'k kanne nie, Ik wilde geweun reiz'n over de zee vo de fun.

No, indeed. I was here to help you with those boxes. Can I bring one of them back to Gugli?


No, none.


No, sorry.


No, they are way too dangerous for me!
Nenk, de die zin ve te gevoarlik veur ikke!

No.
Nen'k.

Nobody will know about the existence of the Mercurians.


Nobody! *burp*
Niemand! *burp*

Nobody.


None of them?


Not everybody has a kind mind. Scammers can be anywhere, even among us!


Not so good. I would feel better on Nard's ship.


Not to kill your dream, but... Julia is mine!


Not yet. I will be back soon.


Nothing, just hanging around.


Nothing, sorry.
Niemendalle, sorry.

Nothing.


Now go outside and talk with Gugli, he'll tell you what we need.


OH, LOOK THERE!


OH, OK!


ON THE TOP OF THE CLIFF!


Of course! Tell me which language you speak and I will change the note on the ship board list.
Moabajoak! Zeg moar wuke toale da j' klapt en 'k ga de verandering wel doen ip de board lijste van 't skip.

Of course, they are on the left wall, go have a look at them.


Oh I see... Sailors are not able to do their job anymore, is that it?!


Oh alright, nevermind then.


Oh good! Did he give you your money back as well?
Ah goed! èt ie ook ui geld were gegev'n?

Oh look, there's a piou behind you!


Oh no, but I've noticed a weird light on the other edge of this island, I wonder what it can be...


Oh really? How could I forget something as important as that?!


Oh really? I'll put more food in the next box then.


Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#0
ah, wel, w' èn ui gered toen da j' an 't yayaing driv'n woart in de zee.

Oh well, we rescued you when you were yaying adrift in the sea.#1
ah, wel, w' èn ui gered toen da j' an 't yayaing driv'n woart in de zee.

Oh well. I'll also give you one of these hats from the box near you, but only after you complete your task!


Oh yeyeye... As they are not edible, you can maybe try to equip them?#0


Oh yeyeye... As they are not edible, you can maybe try to equip them?#1


Oh! I like that sort of answer!


Oh, I see. That's right. Why should someone come here to see me, seriously?


Oh, I was going to ask you if you wanted to help the crew search for some food and explore the island out there.


Oh, and I almost forgot! Do not give the password of your room to anybody! I am the only one who has the other key and I won't ask for yours so keep it secret and try not to use the same password for any other room in the future.


Oh, and Olga from the market place as well!


Oh, and give her some basic clothes, the poor girl, the one she had were in even worse condition that the ones we have!


Oh, and give him some basic clothes, the poor guy, the one he had were in even worse condition that the ones we have!


Oh, and there was this inscription on your raft. It represents one of the warrior guild of Esperia, the largest and biggest guild of the whole new world. Does that make you remember anything, anything at all?


Oh, but you were not here to talk about that I guess.


Oh, he's still alive!
Ei, ie leef' nog!

Oh, it's you.


Oh, it's you. I think it's better we do not talk for a while. They suspect something.


Oh, not everything, don't worry, but your name came up at least twice in the conversation.


Oh, nothing important.


Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#0


Oh, now that I remember, we've also found some money in your pockets, here it is!#1


Oh, she's still alive!
Oh, ze leef' nog!

Oh... Err, yes I did, or, well, good day to you!
Oh... euh, joak, of, wel euh, ne goei'n dag!

Oh... Well, I just started to trade... Thus my technique may not be the best.


Oh... eating rattos. Sounds... ehm... Delicious, yes.


Ok, I think he's waking up, go see him.


Ok, I think she's waking up, go see her.


Ok, I will leave him alone.


Ok, be patient a little while longer, in the next few days we will arrive at the port of Artis...
Ok, nog en bèkke geduld, in de volgende doag'n goan w' arriver'n in den 'av'n van Artis.

Ok, done.


Ok, ok. Come back if you change your mind.
Ok, ok. Kjère moa were a' je van gedach' veranderd.

Ok, see you then!


Okay, I'm ready to work!#0
Ok, 'k benne gereed vo te wèrk'n!

Okay, I'm ready to work!#1
Ok, 'k benne gereed vo te wèrk'n!

Okay, you can start!
Ok, ge kunt start'n!

OldBook


Once the monster is dead, click with your mouse on the dropped item to add it to your inventory or you can use the Z key to claim the drop as well.


Once you're inside of your inventory, you may equip the item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. Alternately, you can unequip an item by clicking on 'unequip'.


Or else, if you really wish one, and if you feel capable, you can try killing tortugas or crocs if you're strong enough. I'm sure they could drop one or two @@s.


Orc Voice
Orc Stemme

Other than that, I don't know much about what else is going on, so directly asking the Cap'tain about it could be a good idea.


Ouch...


Ouch... These boxes are so heavy!


Our crew is like a family, and if you agree to help us, I would like to invite you to join our family!


People started to steal from each other to survive. As cities grew, needs did too. Wars for fertile lands then rose.


Piberries
Piberries

Pink Blobime


Piou Legs


Please don't tell people that you've seen me. I don't want to be thrown in the sea as food for sharks or decapitated. At least not again!


Please don't touch these hats, they are for crew members only.


Plushroom


Plushroom Box


Purple Blobime


QMuller.


Raijin Voice
Raijin Stemme

RattosControl
RattosControl

Really? That's kind of you, I accept your help!


Right! Sailors are pretty quick with their job. They just take too much time bringing all the food back to the ship. Maybe you can help them.


RightBarrierCheck
RightBarrierCheck

RightDoorCheck
RightDoorCheck

Rrrr... Pchhhh...


Rules began to rise in order to have a peaceful society. This did not work well for long.


SO WHAT'S UP?! WHAT ARE YOU DOING?!


SORRY, BUT WHAT DID YOU SAY? SPEAK LOUDER!


Sailors
Zeeman'n

Sea Drops


Sea water?! I will not help you with your evil plan!


See you aboard.


See you!


Seems yummy! Let me taste it!


Seriously?!


She is a good friend of mine... We wanted to marry a few weeks before her accident but...


She is the nurse and shipkeeper of this ship.


She said she will accept me when pious will have teeth. It's just a matter of time, you see?


She's on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She's the only girl in this crew, oh well, except for you now yeyeye!


She's on the upper level, yeye can't miss her. She's the only girl in this crew.


Shhht, don't say it that loud...


Silvio for example?


Silvio starts to speak to his bottle, you leave the conversation.


So finally someone has came to visit me?


So it seems I have another stomach to fill. Those bastards have no respect for who feeds them every damn day!


So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe he comes from that guild, as that sign was on his raft.
Doavor'n èn w' ui dus will'n woarschuw'n, misskien komt ie van die guild, omda da teken ip da vlot getekend was.

So that's why we wanted to warn you, maybe she comes from that guild, as that sign was on her raft.
Doavor'n èn w' ui dus will'n woarschuw'n, misskien kom' ze van die guild, omda da teken ip da vlot getekend was.

So, do you have anything for me today?


So, how do you feel? I see that Julia did a marvelous job! You look like you're in good health now.


So, how is it going? Did you meet any other crew members yet?
En, oe es 't gegoan? È je nog andere zeeman'n gezien?

So, what can I do for you?


So, what was I saying?


So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet me? Or is it because you've heard of my feats on Artis?


So, which good wind brought you here? Were you on your raft to meet my Julia? Or is it because you wanted to see the beautiful waitress' at Artis?


So, you finally woke up? We all thought you were in something like... You know, one of these long comas.


Some Bandanas and Sailor Hats are inside this box.


Some food.


Some more things are written down but it's not legible.


Sometimes, I wish somebody is sent here to help us.


Sorry but I have no time for this.
Sorry, moa 'k ei ier gin tid veure.

Sorry! I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Arpan, but other sailors call me Magic Arpan because I know one or two yaing magic spells.
Sorry! 'k è mi verget'n te presenter'n. Min noame es Arpan, moar d' andere zeeman'n noem'n mi Magischen Arpan, omda'k een of twee yaing magische spreuk'n kenne.

Sorry, I am not in the mood for another fight with these rattos.


Sorry, I don't need any help right now. Come back later.


Sorry, but I can't tell you anything about that.


Stupid yeye...


Suddenly, you hear a voice from the sky.
Plots hoor d' je en stemme van den 'emel.

Sure, but Gugli needs my help first.


Sure, but what can you give me in exchange?


Sure, but what will I get in exchange?


Sure, cap'tain.


Sure, there is a reward for your task.


Sure, why not?


Surely. Take this box full of @@s.


THAT'S A NICE NAME!


Take a Bandana.


Take these coins in exchange and be careful.


Take this money for your wise choice. But do not try it again. Water has been merciful with you once... Do not tempt fate once more!


Tell him that everything went fine and that we're almost done with the food.


Thank you and be careful with that box. I have worked really hard to fill it!


Thank you my friend.


Thank you so much! Here, have some of my berries.


Thank you, I'll take them.
Merci, 'k goa da pakk'n.

Thanks again for helping me. But these rattos are a permanent problem and your help is always welcome. The only problem is that I can give you a reward only one time.


Thanks for helping me!
Merci vo mi 't 'elp'n!

Thanks for the help!


That's right.


That's where you go as well, right?


The adventure begins!


The captain has locked the door, you should go see him.


The captain is waiting for you! Hurry up.


The captain wants:


The door is locked.


The elven from the library has tilted on me a while ago, as well as Enora from the warrior guild.


The end of the story got erased, probably because of the sea water. Some pages are still missing thus you don't know the author's name.


The fear to see her sleeping on this quiet and lonely bed is becoming more and more unbearable, I think that I won't get the bravery to see her this time...


The giant boogeyman!


The great people of Aemil split up into three groups when they reached the coast.


The hidden person doesn't answer.


The old book seems to tell about the legend of Aemil. Would you like to read it?


The sailor chugs his beer.


The sailor turns his back to you.


The sailors take you aboard their ship.


The usurper has been punished! This is a great day! Take this reward as a prize for your loyalty to the old commander!


Their leaders then came to the conclusion that an alliance was the only way they could survive.


Then it seems I have to apologize.


Then just leave me alone.


There are few groups of these @@s all around this island. Just pick some and have a try.


There are rumors going around that they did some monstrous things and that they are hiding quite a lot from us.


There are some flying yellow plushes around you. They're called pious. Getting a roasted leg of one of them would be perfect.


There are some groups of these @@s all around this island. Just pick some and have a try.


There are some knifes on the table. Would you like to take one?


There are still some rattos left! Do you want to abort the quest?


There is a paper with some rules written on it.


There're 6 sailors who will need your help. They're all around the island.


There's nothing to say, don't worry miss.


There's nothing to say, don't worry sir.


Therefore, starvation stroke on the people of Aemil.


These boxes are way too heavy to be brought alone onto the ship.


These crocotrees are full of yaying @@, but they are so hard to hit...


These heavy boxes are killing me, I don't feel my arms anymore!


These yeye boxes are way too heavy to be carried alone onto the ship.


They are both valid and I need them. In the past, I probably did mistakes I now regret. I was wondering if you could investigate and... Sort out this situation.


They are so tasty when cooked together with some @@. Don't drop any of them!


This girl is lucky we found her before a shark did. I have no idea where she comes from. By the way, did you see the logo on her raft?


This girl needs help, we need to rescue her!


This guy is lucky we found him before a shark did. I have no idea where he comes from. By the way, did you see the logo on his raft?


This guy needs help, we need to rescue him!


This is a nice place... There are some nice chicks...


This is an @@, a light blue sea fruit. They're highly desired in the archipelago.


This is it, the end of the Second Beta Release of Evol Online!


This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on her.
Zuknen klap zoe moet'n bestraft weur'n, moar 'k ga akoord, ik è ze ook nie zo gèren, dus 'oud ze moar in de mot.

This kind of talk should be punished, but I agree that I don't specially like them too, so keep an eye on him.
Zuknen klap zoe moet'n bestraft weur'n, moar 'k ga akoord, ik è ze ook nie zo gèren, dus 'oud 'm moar in de mot.

This makes sense. Do you think we should inform the capt'n about it?


This new continent, in fact an archipelago, was called Andorra.


Tibbo.


To open your inventory, use the F3 key or use your mouse in the above menu of your client.#0


To open your inventory, use the F3 key or use your mouse in the above menu of your client.#1


Tritan Voice
Tritan Stemme

UAHAHAHAAH! I am the cook of that bunch of donkeys and I can be rude with everyone from this bossy captain to that harpy-lady!


Uh? Hi! I'm sorry, but I have no time for chatting.


Uhm, bye.


Understood, I will help you.


Unfortunately, we still need help from you. This time it will be a delicate task, here onboard.


Use the key.


Usually I don't allow anyone to touch my boxes but...


Very nice, indeed!


WHAT DID YOU SAY?!


Wait, it seems someone is blocking the door from the other side!


Wait... Where are we going?


Walk a bit, it'll be easy for you to catch one. Impale one of them for me please.


Water, salt, spicy herbs and meat stuffed with my special surprise!


We are looking for some goods we could trade in our next destination.


We hope you liked this introduction and to see you again in our future releases!


We made a stop at a little island, before making it to the port of Artis.


We need as many hands as possible to explore the island out there, and to get some new food.


We need manpower on the island.


We need manpower on the island... Oh forgive me, women are also welcome, of course.


We should be there in a few days, once we arrive, I will warn the warrior guild about what happened, I'm sure they can help.


We thought that you could help us understand this, all we know is that we found you back in the sea, adrift on your raft.
We peiden da je gie oes kost 'elp'n verstoan wa da 't er gebeurd ès, we wet'n oallènne da w' ui èn gevon'n in de zee, an't driv'n ip ui vlot.

We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly destroyed them. It's why we gave you these clothes. They're not very nice, but that's all that we have for you.#0


We tried to clean them but the sea water mostly destroyed them. It's why we gave you these clothes. They're not very nice, but that's all that we have for you.#1


We usually dock around these small pieces of land because they provide us some of the best food of all the archipelago.


We usually don't stop in such splendid places, but the capt'ain lets us stay here while he writes down the location of this new island on his map!


We will be yaying there in a few days, so we will drop you off there.


Well I'm working too! Don't you want me to carry one of these boxes back to Gugli?


Well done! Collect all the ingredients and then come back here. You will be rewarded once they understand who rules this ship!


Well done! The ship is now ready to sail again!


Well if you are whining like that all the time, then I think there is a reason behind their choice.


Well then... Take this one!


Well, even though you have been rescued by us, it doesn't make you an expert sailor, am I right?


Well, it isn't a bad sensation to finally feel something beneath my feet.


Well, thanks for the box. But... He was supposed to bring it back to me himself. I never asked him to give it to you!


Well... No wait, I have something for you but you shouldn't eat it... I'm taking it back to the kitchen.


Well... Welcome aboard, cutie!#0


Well... Welcome aboard, cutie!#1


What I sell comes from every corner of this archipelago.


What am I supposed to say?


What are you guys saying ? It's a Yoiis!#0


What are you guys saying ? It's a Yoiis!#1


What are you looking at?


What are you looking for?


What are you talking about? What guild?


What are your needs?


What did Gugli said about the box? Was it ok?


What did Gugli yayaid about the box? Was it ok?


What do you need?


What do you think?


What do you want to do?


What do you want today?
Wa wildje vandoage èn?

What do you wish to do?


What happened to me?
Wa d'es 't er gebeurt met ik?

What is Artis?
Wad es Artis?

What is exactly your real job?


What kind of help?


What should I do after taking these clothes?#0
Wa moe 'k ik doen achter da'k die kleren è gepakt?

What should I do after taking these clothes?#1
Wa moe 'k ik doen achter da'k die kler'n è gepakt?

What yeye could I do for you today?
Wa yaya kanne 'k ik doen vo gie vandoage?

What's that food?


What's that?


What? It's not a good reward?


What? This reward is too small!
Wa? Die beloninge es ve te weinig!

What?! This tritan is the worse shirker I ever met!


When your inventory will be opened, you may equip the item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. Alternately, you can unequip an item by selecting 'Unequip' to remove it.#0


When your inventory will be opened, you may equip the item by selecting it and clicking 'Equip'. Alternately, you can unequip an item by selecting 'Unequip' to remove it.#1


Where are my old clothes?
Woar zi'n min oude kler'n?

Where can I find Julia?#0
Woar kannekik Julia vin'n?

Where can I find Julia?#1
Woar kannekik Julia vin'n?

Where can I find some food?
Woar kannekik entwa vin'n vo 't et'n?

Where can I find your crew?


Where is the damn salt?! Give me the salt. I know you have it!


Which of your weapons do you want to use in order to cut this @@?


Who are yeye looking for?


Who are you looking for?


Who are you?
Wie zei j' gie?

Who is she?


Who of them two has the 'good' on his side?


Who's this Julia?


Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#0
Vowa Frenchy? 't ès en Russische!

Why Frenchy? It's a Russian!#1
Vowa Frency? 't ès en Russische!

Why are you hiding?
Vo wa zei j' gie an 't verstopp'n?

Why don't you come down to talk?


Why don't you come out?


Why not, I need to train anyway.
Vowa nie, 'k moe toch nog wa train'n.

Why not, I've got plenty of free time.


Why not, but who are you?


Why?


Why? And who should you bring it back to?


Wow, it seems everyone knows my name!


YOU NEED TO WALK NORTH!


Yaya, you should go see her! She'll be happy to see you.#0


Yaya, you should go see her! She'll be happy to see you.#1


Yayayaya, it's the first time someone is dressed worse then us!


Yeah you're all like *hic* that in Esperia, but you won't get me! *burp*


Yeah, but I would like to make sure I get a reward.
Bajoak, moar 'k wil 't zeker zin da'k en belonginge krig.

Yeah, but what reward will I get?
Bajoak, moa wa veur beloninge goa 'k ik krig'n

Yes he did.
Joaj.

Yes!


Yes, Arpan gave me these clothes.
Joa, Arpan ei mi die kler'n gegev'n.

Yes, I do.


Yes, indeed. I prefer to explore places I have never been to, before doing anything else.


Yes, it is true! You are not able at all. Nard has been waiting for the food for too long already. Hurry up, you lazy sailors!


Yes, it's a chest.


Yes, why not.


Yes.
Joak.

Yeye ask too much but do too less. Take this box and stop talking.


Yeye be careful with wild animal's food, some of them are yeyery dangerous, especially the blubs.


Yeye gave my box to Gugli? Nice, nice yeye!


Yeye got good eyes and seem to have fully recovered from your injuries...


Yeye seen this yoiis at the bottom of the island, check around.


Yeye seen this yoiis at the top of the island.


Yeye still have my box? Stare less and work more. Go give it to Gugli!


Yeye sure? I'll yaye some more food in the next box then.#0


Yeye sure? I'll yaye some more food in the next box then.#1


Yeye's brain is probably still full of sea water if yeye can't see the beauty of this place.


Yeye, it's the logo of the warrior guild of Esperia, I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#0
Yeye, 't ès 't logo van de soldoat'n guild van Esperia, 'k vroage mi af wat die yoiis ier and doen ès, zo ver van de kust.

Yeye, it's the logo of the warrior guild of Esperia, I wonder what this yoiis was doing so far away from the coast.#1
Yeye, 't ès 't logo van de soldoat'n guild van Esperia, 'k vroage mi af wat dien yoiis ier and doen ès, zo ver van de kust.

Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#0
Yeye, g' è geluk da' j' 't overleefd èt. Ge zit nu wel goe genoeg vo rond te wandel'n, moar weet je wa da't er ès gebeurt?

Yeye, you are really lucky to be alive. You are in good enough shape for walking, do you remember what happened?#1
Yeye, g' è geluk da' j' 't overleefd èt. Ge zit nu wel goe genoeg vo rond te wandel'n, moar weet je wa da't er ès gebeurt?

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#0
Yeye, g' eit ui kler'n nog oalsan nie gehad!

Yeye, you still did not get your clothes!#1
Yeye, g' eit ui kler'n nog oalsan nie gehad!

Yeye.
Yeye.

You already took a Bandana, please put this one back in the box.


You are full of wine, my friend...
Ge zit vul me drank, manneke...

You are now officially part of my crew! Thanks again for your help.


You are now part of the crew. Thanks again for your help.


You are now part of the crew... At least for us down here!


You are on a raft, adrift in the sea.
Ge zit ip en vlot, an't ronddrijven in de zee.

You can attack a monster by clicking on it or from your keyboard you can press the A key to select the monster followed by 'Ctrl' to attack it.


You can find them in the ocean, near corals and other sea beings. But the sea is too heavy today, you shouldn't try swimming for now.


You can try talking with some other sailors to get some information about that.


You can yaye some @@s by hitting these crocotrees.


You can't go there!
Ge kunt 'ier nie passer'n

You could meet some of the other sailors this way, and... Getting this hat of course, will be a sign of you becoming part of our crew.


You dirty liar. I will add your name on the traitors list.#0


You dirty liar. I will add your name on the traitors list.#1


You have an awful amnesia.


You have been so nice with me. So, please, take one.


You have to know that there was a time during which I was the unopposed lieutenant of this crew. Then one day one of the damn sailor brought here that 'nice' lady.


You hear a screaming sound, must be the creaking of the wood door...


You hit too hard with your fist, you lost your @@.


You honor me beauty, but I'm already taken by Julia!


You know, sailors love to chat while working.


You like them, don't you? Just speak with Peter then. He is on the Second Deck of the ship. He will send you to downstairs where you will find our hairy meal!


You like these hats, right?


You mentioned the quality of your wine.


You open the book, but it looks like the sea water and time damaged it severely. Some pages are not readable anymore. Some others are simply missing.


You open the treasure chest.


You opened the @@, but only one side is edible.


You perfectly cut your @@ in two edible parts.


You realize you can't remember anything.


You receive 25GP!


You receive 50GP!


You see these pious around us?


You see? I'm working here!


You should go and get some sleep.
Ge zoe beter nog en bekke sloap'n.

You should go see him. He is one of the most experienced sailors we have.


You should go see them.
Ge zoe ze beter goan zien.

You should inform Nard about the loading progress of the merchandise on to the boat. He will be pleased to hear that good news!


You should inform Nard about the loading progress of the merchandise on to the ship. He will be pleased to hear that good news.


You should look at them once we arrive at the port, they are worth it, hehe...


You should walk to the north to find him.


You should walk to the north.


You still got a few days before we arrive at the port, maybe you can learn something from them?
G' eit nog en poar doag'n vo da w' arriver'n an den 'aven, misskiens kun dje entwuk leer'n van zudder?

You still haven't completed your tasks.


You stupid, he's english, look at the shape of the head.


You stupid, she's english, look at the shape of the head.


You take the clothes from the chest.


You told me that you 'were' important.


You tried to get rid of me, eeh? But surprise! I'm still here... *hic* Or there...


You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#0


You were in bad shape, you should be happy we found you before the sea killed you.#1


You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#0


You were yaying sleeping for quite some time there, our shipkeeper, Julia, was here with you, she did her best to heal your injuries.#1


You will see, citizens are polite and you can still ask for help in the warrior guild. They can help find a job for you or maybe help you find out what happened to you out at sea!


You yoiis should walk to the north.


You're on a ship, we're on our way to the commercial capital of Artis.


You're on our ship, we made port to a little island and we're actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#0


You're on our ship, we made port to a little island and we're actually yeyending our long merchant traveling adventure at the city of Artis.#1


You're one of us now, that's great! I was sure that you were a good man when I first saw you!


You're one of us now, that's great! I was sure that you were a kind lady when I first saw you!


You're right, it's about Julia.


You're right, it's about you.


You... You eat... rattos? I think you're just a fool.


You? Here?


Your hands are too weak, you didn't open the @@.


Your position has been saved.


Zzzzzzzzzz
Zzzzzzzzzz

a ground!


a quiet place,


